Investors are giving this bull market
the benefit of the doubt.
>> If this is really like a four-week
event, equities are going to be fine.
>> It could be quite dangerous to be seeing
this as a buy the dip in all the risk
assets.
>> You don't want to be heavily overweight
large cap or mega cap growth stocks.
>> This is about duration and this is about
time unknown.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday holding on to triple digits
around supreme leader vowing to choke
off supply through the Strait of Hormuz
as the president claims defeating the
enemy is more important than the price
of energy. The Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent is providing Russia with more
sanction relief. That story is where we
begin this hour. Brent holding on to
this week's gains as supply remains
squeezed. Scott Bessent writing the
following to increase the global reach
of existing supply, Treasury is
providing a temporary authorization to
permit countries to purchase Russian oil
currently stranded at sea. It's another
push to keep a lid on crude.
>> And it is two points that we keep
focusing on. Number one, Russia seems to
be the biggest winner or one of the
biggest winners through all of this. Uh
there was a report out saying that
Russia's earning as much as $150 million
a day in extra revenues tied to the
higher price of oil ever since the
Strait of Hormuz closed. So that's on
one hand. And then of course you have a
policy question here in the United
States. And on the other hand it
highlights how little power the US has
to bring down oil prices in other
manners. It's tried all sorts of
measures whether it's releasing the SPR,
talking about the futures markets, but
ultimately they're running out of tools
barring just opening up the strait.
>> To your point, just think about what
we've seen so far this week. The
announcement of a record reserve release
for energy, get more barrels into the
market, some vague promises of doing
more, and then further sanction relief
for Russia. The market is speaking for
itself. Crude is up again on the week by
close to 10% up on the month by around
40 and crude right now holding on to
triple digits.
>> a number of tools they can do for
incremental uses. Also, they're weighing
the Jones Act. They're obviously having
some more relief to Russian oil. They're
tapping the SPR. But to Lisa's point, to
your point, until the Strait of Hormuz
is actually back and open and tankers
are flowing through that are not
Chinese-flagged or Iranian-flagged, then
at this point the market is going to
continue to grind higher, especially as
the conflict continues.
>> a statement from the president in the
last 24 hours. The United States is the
largest oil producer in the world by
far. When oil prices go up, we make a
lot of money. That's the statement from
the president, which is kind of
unbelievable to see the direction of gas
prices right now going into the midterms
a number of months away.
>> How do you message something that's
deeply unpopular at a time where
affordability has been the key issue?
Yesterday, Libby Cantrill of Kimco was
saying that right now a lot of people,
even in Republican circles, are saying
this has been political suicide given
the time that there is really a focus on
cost of living to see gasoline prices
rising at such a significant pace since
the start of this conflict. You can try
messaging it all you want, but you can't
message people's pocketbooks in a
different direction and people see with
their eyes and they're not so silly to
not be able to understand what they're
seeing.
>> Also, who is actually making a lot of
money? Sure, Exxon, Chevron, some of the
big oil players potentially making a lot
of money right now, some of the shale
producers, but not the American people.
We don't have a state-owned oil company.
As to your point, Jonathan, I check AAA
every day. Today, $3.63.
We are closer to $4 a gallon than we are
to three. And right now, what you're
hearing out of Iran is that they want to
keep the strait essentially closed.
>> And we were sub $3 coming into this war.
Right now, equity futures just about
unchanged on the S&P 500 coming up this
hour. We'll catch up with Bob Iger of
Unlimited Funds as risk appetite pulls
back. Marine Corps veteran Robert Walsh
with all eyes on the Strait of Hormuz
and Jordon Rochester of Masuo as markets
grow impatient with mixed messaging. We
begin this hour with our top story. Iran
vowing to keep the Strait of Hormuz
closed sending crude back into triple
digits. Our team coverage starts right
now with Joumana Betseche out of Dubai.
Joumana, good morning. The president's
own words overnight, we have
unparalleled power fire power and
limited ammunition and plenty of time.
Watch what happens to these deranged
scumbags. It's week two. People were
hoping this would go on for days and not
weeks and now we're talking about weeks,
not months.
>> Yep, that's exactly it. No real clarity
on the timeline or how long this is
going to take, but what I will say is
we're very much still in the thick of
it. Yesterday, remember on your show we
were reporting about the anticipated
statements coming through from the new
supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei and that
did come through. I will say it was a
statement that was read out on national
television. It didn't come from him
directly,
but the point was messages of defiance
once again and vowing to keep the Strait
closed, vowing to continue attacking US
bases around the Gulf countries, and
threatening to expand into other areas
as well without giving a lot of details
of what those are those are and also
vowing to avenge the killing of school
children in the early days of the
operations then the joint US Israeli
operations. There was of course an
attack that took place on a school in
Iran. So, those are some of the themes
that came through, but I would say
beyond the rhetoric, the messaging was
quite simply that they are still very
much in charge. The hardliners are in
charge here. And even it was quite
interesting yesterday in his first
comments in a while we heard from the
Israeli Prime Minister and they said
that even though the strikes have
significantly weakened Iran and their
clerical leadership, unlikely at this
point that it's going to guarantee
regime change in the country. So, even
an acknowledgement there that the
hardliners are still really very much in
control of many of these military
decisions. And I will say as we're
speaking now, there's a pro-government
demonstration going on in Tehran. It's
Good Friday, it's the last Friday of
Ramadan. Um people are showing up in
masses, of course, in this very uh
obvious show of support for the
government. So, what we're not seeing is
actually protesters, which is what I
think, you know, the calculus was at the
beginning of these military operations
that perhaps the people of Iran would
use this as an opportunity to rise up.
There are no signs of that happening as
of yet. The second messaging that came
through yesterday from Iran is quite
clearly that they are aware they're
inflicting a lot of damage uh on the
global economy and on the Gulf states.
And the fact that they've reiterated
their plans to keep the Strait of Hormuz
closed means that their calculus from
that perspective isn't going to change
anytime soon. They know they have this
chokehold over the global economy. And
one of the conditions they have set for
coming back to the negotiating table is
to reopen up the Strait of Hormuz, they
need to be sure that US strikes on Iran
will not happen again. This is clearly
not something that the US are
considering at this point in time.
President Trump's saying that he vows to
press on even with oil prices higher.
So, still a lot of daylight between the
two positions.
>> Jumana, I appreciate your time this
morning. No doubt we'll catch up a
little bit later. Jumana Bacall out of
there out of Dubai. The view on Wall
Street this morning looks like this. Bob
Elliott of Unlimited Funds writes in,
"Markets appear to be severely
under-discounting the possibility of
2026 ending with much softer growth and
higher inflation." Bob joins us now for
more. Bob, welcome to the program. Think
about what we've repriced through the
week so far. The December oil contract
has gone from the 60s to the 80s over
the last 2 weeks. The 2-year yield is
now the highest since August. We've
repriced energy, we've repriced rates.
Do you think we've sufficiently repriced
growth in this equity market?
>> Well, I mean, if you take a look at
what's going on with the stock market, I
mean, we've barely budged from all-time
highs here despite the fact that we're
facing an oil shock, uh priced into the
curve that is on par with what we saw in
2022 after the Russian invasion. And so,
I think people have a bit of oil shock
amnesia, forgetting just how painful it
was to see oil prices spike the way that
they did
back in 2022, and forget just how
painful that was for both stock and bond
investors. And so, you look across the
asset markets as a whole, while we've
seen quite a move in oil, it's basically
largely unreflected in either the bond
market or the stock market at this
point.
>> what do you expect the tipping point to
be? What is that moment, and what does
it look like where people in equities
finally realize this is worse than they
thought it was?
>> Well, I think we're probably going to
see a combination of what we've seen so
far, which is almost in the market
action this grind of one person after
another recognizing that this may well
be more painful
than was hoped at the beginning. And
then on top of it, what we're starting
to see is that spike in perceived risk,
you know, seeing what's going on in the
move index, seeing what's going on in
in the VIX.
You're going to start to see risk
managers tap their
tap their PMs on the shoulders here, and
start to say, "Hey, we've got to cut
back risk in aggregate." You know,
coming into this,
there was a lot of kindling of high
expectations
for the US economy.
Basically, you know, investors were
about as long assets as they been in a
long time, particularly stocks. And so,
there's a lot of room to bring that
back. And once that deleveraging process
starts, it really has a momentum of its
own, and I think we're right at the
tipping point where that's beginning.
>> You know, Bob, I can understand why some
people would be reluctant to take down
risk, because every time they have done
this in the past, they have been burned.
Whenever it starts feeling really
uncomfortable, that's when the bazooka
comes into play, and you get some sort
of program from the fiscal government,
you get some sort of policy shift, or
you get the monetary policy makers
coming online. Why do you think that's
not possible this time around?
>> Well, I think there's the the most
important thing here is that um
that the US government does not control
the policy at this point. And what I
mean by that is that um
unlike liberation day where, you know,
in the stroke of a pen, the president
could just roll back the policies to the
extent that he thought was appropriate.
Um here, you're negotiating and engaging
with a different side. And so uh the
the Iranians have as much control over
how this plays out as the US does at
this point. And so it's not just the US
decision here about whether uh this
conflict will get scaled back. It's
multiple parties involved across the
Gulf. I mean, I think this is one of the
challenges um that exists when it comes
to conflict that that folks often under
discount, which is war has a momentum of
its own. And that's exactly what we're
seeing here play out. And so it's much
more challenging from a policy walk back
environment uh to uh reverse policies
related to this conflict than to
economic policies that have been
implemented previously.
>> If I had high conviction in this outlook
that you're put putting out there, which
is a stagflationary type of environment
that will totally re-rate the entire
risk asset uh
complex, I would go to cash, and I would
go to commodities, and I would sit there
and I would wait for a better entry
point. Is that essentially what you're
doing?
>> Yeah, what we see is basically um
across the most sophisticated asset
managers of the world, the hedge fund
community, global macro managers,
they're basically long oil and have
benefited a lot from that trade, and
they're cutting back risk in other
assets, basically de-risking the book in
order to uh to stay nimble uh to the
extent that things may change, but
recognizing we're in a totally different
volatility environment here. This is
very different from the easy money, you
know, expansionary policies that we saw
back, you know, even just a few months
ago. That's what it looked like 26 was
setting out to be. But, you get an oil
shock, you get a conflict, the world
changes on a dime. That's basically
where we're at right now. And it's not
like we have to have even a significant
escalation from here. If oil prices play
out just as they are priced into the
curve, you're going to see significant
slowing of economic activity, a 1 to 2%
increase in inflation, an erosion in
household real spending power. People
are going to start talking about
recession just from that from what's
priced into the curve into the oil curve
right now. And and that's a very
challenging set of
of conditions given the fact that
basically everyone coming in was
expecting 2 to 3% real growth and, you
know, stocks pushing beyond all-time
highs.
>> Bob, where do you think this leaves the
Fed? The president yesterday took a
swipe at J. Powell saying that they
should be dropping rates immediately and
not even waiting for the next meeting.
But, how is the Fed going to do that if
they're concerned about inflation now in
a much more serious way given this oil
price spike?
>> Well, there's no way the Fed's going to
cut policy if we move to
four-plus percent headline inflation.
And that's
basically what we're looking at given
the current path of oil prices. And I
think when you look across the world, I
think the challenge with any sort of oil
spike environment is not only does it
put pressure on growth, but it obviously
constrains central banks from responding
to that weaker growth. And so, what you
see here when it comes to the the
forward path of interest rates is that
easing cycle that, you know, asset
prices benefited from, that growth
benefited from over the last couple of
years, not only is that fading, that's
totally reversed. We have tightening
priced in across the curve in basically
every single major developed economy at
this point. And that makes sense when
inflation might be spiking one or two
percent as a result of this dynamic. The
the era of easy money
uh is just simply not going to continue
across the developed world in the
context of an oil shock.
>> We've priced out a lot of easing over
the last 2 weeks, that's for sure. Bob,
thank you, sir. Bob Elliott there of
unlimited funds. Whereas Chair Powell,
Chair Powell is in a quiet period and I
imagine he's happy he's there right now.
They've got a decision to make next
week. Next Wednesday is when you'll hear
from Chairman Powell. Chancellor Scholz,
we're hearing from him right now. The
German leader following a decision by
the Treasury Department to once again
ease sanctions on Russia crude. The US
to authorize Russian oil sales was
wrong, the German leader just moments
ago.
>> Yeah, clearly a concern about whether
this gives additional leverage to
Russia. You could say it's a bit rich to
be discussing this when in the build-up
to the Russia-Ukraine war, there was a
huge dependence on Russian oil and they
didn't really move away. Nonetheless, it
highlights how difficult this is to pair
two policy prescriptions at the same
time when cost of living is very much a
concern for everyone.
>> Not just the build-up. Europe today is
still buying Russian fossil fuels. So,
it's really precious hearing from the
Europeans that they think this is the
wrong mistake. At the same time, this
just benefits really China. When you
have these floating storages, these
tanks that are right now stranded on the
sea with an elevated price, it benefits
Russia, but at the same time this means
China's just going to put it right into
storage.
>> And next on the program, tank is in the
Gulf. We'll have to wait.
>> All of our military assets right now are
focused on destroying Iran's ability to
wage war and terrorize the neighborhood.
When we can when we can afford some
additional assets to move tankers
through the Straits of Hormuz, we will
do that.
>> And next we'll catch up with the retired
Lieutenant General Robert Walsh of
Academy Securities. That conversation
just around the corner live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
>> What can be done to offset the supply
squeeze through the Strait of Hormuz?
I remember the Senate energy aspects
earlier on this morning, nothing.
One word, nothing. And we heard the same
thing from Carlyle's Jeff Currie earlier
this week. Brent holding on to triple
digits, $100.80
up by 3rd of 1% on the session so far,
up on the week by around 9%. In the
equity market, three day losing streak
on the S&P 500. Yesterday, the worst day
since mid-February. This morning,
positive by just 2/10 of 1%, but well on
course for three consecutive weeks of
losses. That would be the longest weekly
losing streak going back 12 months. And
the severance this morning, tankers in
the Gulf will have to wait.
>> The Strait of Hormuz needs to be and
will be reopened. The US military is
there for the
is there to solve a long-term problem.
You've got to go through short-term pain
to solve a long-term problem. All of our
military assets right now are focused on
destroying Iran's ability to wage war
and terrorize the neighborhood. When we
can when we can afford some additional
assets to move tankers through the
Strait of Hormuz, we will do that.
>> So, here's the latest this morning Iran
refusing to back down back to keep the
Strait of Hormuz shut as White House
officials say there is little capacity
to escort tankers through the choke
point. Joining us from Washington is
Bloomberg's Jeff Mason. Jeff, welcome
back to the program. Clearly, the
administration is trying to alleviate
the pain at the pump by allowing the
Russians to sell more of their crude.
The pushback from the German Chancellor
this morning is notable. How great is
the divide between the US and its own
allies?
>> Well, the president I don't think cares
that much about the divide between the
US and its own allies. That has been a
hallmark of his administration and of
his leadership both in the first term
and the second term. He is concerned
about oil prices for sure and there's a
huge political risk to him going into
the midterms in November if these
gasoline prices continue to go up in in
correspondence with those oil prices.
But, it is a wait-and-see message, and
that is not a very easy political case
to make.
>> Do you think we're underestimating the
degree of risk the president is willing
to take? That statement that came out in
the last 24 hours, that of far greater
interest and importance to me as
president is stopping an evil empire,
Iran.
>> I think it goes back a little bit to
mixed signals. The president said just
within the last week that he thought the
war would end quickly, but he has also
said that he's willing to stay there for
the long term, for several weeks. And,
with the words that you just you
described, it absolutely underscores
that he went in there with a purpose and
with a reason, and that is to have this
impact on Iran. And, he is not getting
everything he wants. He doesn't have the
the regime change that he wanted and
that the new Ayatollah is someone who
succeeded his father. He hasn't been
He's not getting everything he wants,
and he's not going to leave until at
least I think he can show or suggest
that he got more of what he did.
>> Jeff, it's good to see you. No doubt
we'll catch up in the next hour. Jeff
Mason there of Bloomberg down in
Washington D.C. Jeff, stay close. The
announcement from the president of the
United States clearly a divide between
what the Republicans on the ground here
in the United States would like to see,
and ultimately his determination to
secure his objectives, whatever they
might be, in the Middle East.
>> And, also you have reporting this
morning exclusive reporting from Reuters
talking about the different factions
within the administration. And,
individuals say like Senators Lindsey
Graham and Tom Cotton who are pushing
for him to finish this job in Iran.
Where others, some economic advisers,
maybe Susie Wiles, saying this is going
to have a massive political cost when
you have oil prices this high and
gasoline prices continuously going up
ahead of peak driving season, ahead of
the fall when we have the midterm
election.
>> Let's address the military difficulties
right now. The retired Lieutenant
General Robert Walsh of Academy
Securities writes in restoring normal
shipping could take weeks if a
significant number of naval mines are
deployed. Lieutenant General Walsh joins
us now for more. Lieutenant General,
welcome back to the program, sir. I want
to give to you just the quote that we
heard from the supreme leader,
supposedly a quote from the supreme
leader yesterday. The leave of the
Strait of Hormuz must certainly continue
to be used. Studies have been conducted
on opening other fronts where the enemy
has little experience and would be
highly vulnerable. Now, we're going into
the realm of speculation, Lieutenant
General, but what do you suppose the
supreme leader is addressing there?
>> Well, I think what he's trying to say
and first off, thanks, Jonathan, for
having me this morning. But I think what
he's trying to say is, you know, they're
trying to work against our strength.
They're using asymmetric warfare. You
know, it's one of the things the Chinese
um
philosopher Sun Tzu said, don't work
against an enemy's strength, work
against their their weaknesses. And this
is one of those areas where they can
work asymmetrically and Iran feels like
they want to get leverage whenever they
go into whatever negotiations may be.
This could go long-term and he wants to
have that leverage and he's going
against our our one of our key problems
is trying to keep the Strait of Hormuz
open.
>> Well, yesterday the Treasury Secretary
said that his belief is that as soon as
it is militarily possible, the US Navy,
perhaps with an international coalition,
will be escorting vessels through. Can
you walk us through what this even looks
like?
>> Yeah, sure, Anne Marie. That's that's
great. I think the one point you hit on
was an international coalition trying to
bring partners together
to open the straits up cuz this is an
international problem. So, the more the
US can always leverage international
problems
you know, problems like this, the better
off it's going to be. You know, and and
we've got a lot of international
partners that have a lot of capabilities
in this. I think you can see right now
that the US has a great ability right
now to suppress Iran's missile drone
capabilities
to kind of maintain air superiority over
that.
And now the real question would be would
Iran start to lay mines in there because
that's another opportunity they've got
to choke off the Strait of Hormuz.
That's another asymmetric capability
that uh if you look at the way the US
Navy operates, they would rather just
like we've seen the first parts of the
the air campaign, it's like they would
rather stand off than stand in. When you
start putting, you know, warships into
contested areas like uh contested
littorals like we have in the in the
Gulf in the in the uh straits there, uh
they would like to set the conditions
first and that's why I think you're
seeing time before the escort start to
happen, setting those conditions right
before we start conducting out the
operations.
>> Well, besides the UK Navy, who's signing
up for this international coalition?
>> I think that would be something that
have to be worked with the international
partners like Saudi Arabia, I think the
UAE, we've had the French in there and
Australia have mine uh
countermeasures capabilities. They would
be the ones and I think you'd have a
better chance of performing that once
the conditions are set where it's safe
to go in that to conduct escort mine
clearing operations because these would
really be more looked at by the
international community as defensive
operations and not offensive operations
and why you'd have a better chance of
getting a coalition with those partners.
>> Lieutenant General, do you think that
still there is a possibility of ground
troops going into Iran particularly to
get the enriched uranium still there?
>> Lisa, that's a real hard question to
say. I I certainly don't see large
ground forces going in. There there
could be significant operations that
would go into key sites like you just
mentioned for nuclear cables. Very
dangerous operations. We have the
capabilities to do it. Again, those
conditions would have to be set for
those forces to go in but at the end of
the day, I don't see any risk the US
wants to take by putting large ground
forces in and putting them at risk into
some type of long extended campaign.
>> Lieutenant General, do you think you can
end up in a long extended campaign even
if you don't want to?
>> I think this I you know, warfare changes
as it goes on and what we're starting to
see from the Iranians is even with the
massive power the US has along with the
Israelis bringing all this power to bear
and taking down, you know, the missile
capabilities, uh somewhat the drone
capabilities. We're seeing those numbers
drop way down. Uh we've seen them
destroyed pretty much the entire navy of
Iran. But at the same time, like I said,
uh the Iranians have looked at this
problem just as the US has looked at it
for a very long time. They understand
the strengths of what the US does, how
the US comes to war, and what they have
worked against is those weaknesses. And
a weakness they see here is that regime
is willing to hang on uh for a long,
long time. And then that's what we see
is regimes like this are not willing to
give up power. They're willing to
entrench themselves for a long time. And
what they're seeing is by using this
asymmetric threats, by firing the drones
in particular, the missiles also, you
know, at our allies and partners, and
threatening the the straits to keep them
closed, that's an asymmetric way where
they've got leverage. And they're going
to use that as best they can to get into
negotiations where they've got leverage
to try to get the things they want
coming out of that as the war comes to
an end, when that comes to an end.
>> It is existential for them, without a
doubt. Lieutenant General, appreciate
your time, sir. Thank you. Lieutenant
General Robert Walsh there, joining us
to break down the latest in the Middle
East. Up next, Rachel Ziemba at the
Center for a New American Security on
the possibility of $5 a gallon gasoline.
Three-day losing streak on the S&P 500
looking to avoid day four. Equity
futures just about positive by tenth of
1% on the S&P and the Nasdaq up a tenth
also on the Russell of small caps up by
0.2. Setting the tone once again this
morning, the epicenter for financial
markets worldwide in the commodity
market, in energy, looking at crude,
Brent and WTI. Brent holding on to
triple digits, $100.50,
up on the week by around 9%, up on the
month between 30 to 40% so far through
the month of March. You can see WTI
slightly lower there down by 6/10 of 1%.
With that move in crude, we're repricing
interest rates all around the world. The
two-year bond yield, front end of the
curve, 374 yesterday closing at the
highest level since August of last year.
And with that Lisa, high yields, a
stronger US dollar.
>> Yeah, and this has been a huge pain
point given the fact that this was the
pain trade. Everybody was sort of
overweight this idea of a weaker dollar.
A key question here of why you have seen
this 35 basis point rise in two-year
yields. Is it because people expect some
sort of rate hike coming down the pipe,
the next move being something different
than what people initially expected, or
is this ultimately so many people just
trying to liquidate and go to havens at
a time where it seems like everyone's
been caught offsides?
>> of everything. All of the above, can I
say that? The two-year yield right now
trading right in line with the upper end
of the Fed funds range. Looking at
foreign exchange as well, Lisa, the euro
breaking 115, the lowest since August.
The yen, the weakest level since 2024.
That dollar strength, speaking of
positioning, a lot of people caught
offside in FX as well.
>> How many people? I would say about 95%
of all guests who came on surveillance
talked about how they were going
overweight Europe, overweight Asia,
overweight absolutely everywhere. And
now that is all coming to bite even with
ECB talking about potentially raising
rates. I mean, this highlights how rate
differentials don't drive the boat when
you're dealing with a massive shock that
really affects growth rates.
>> But the Europe and Japan, of course,
exposed to the energy shock. It's a
terms of trade shock for those two
nations, those two economic blocks.
We'll be talking about that with Jordan
Rochester in a little bit later this
hour, in about 15 minutes time. As we
count you down to the opening, about 3
hours away, let's get you some morning
movers. Lizzie has more. Hey, Lizzie.
>> Hey, John. Well, we start off with
Adobe. The shares down 7.8% in the
premarket. And this comes down to the
news that the CEO is going to be
stepping away once a successor is found,
but after 18 years at the helm of this
company. Now, of course, this comes at a
time when Adobe's at the heart of the
concerns about the threat of AI to
software. So, it adds a layer of
uncertainty at a very delicate moment
for this company. Adding to questions
about strategic continuity and the pace
of innovation going forward. So, we've
got Barclays analysts
downgrading the stock from overweight to
equal weight, stepping to the sidelines,
even though frankly, this CEO news is
overshadowing what was a positive story
when it came to earnings. Now, let's
turn over to Meta as well. We've got mag
seven stocks in general dropping in the
pre-market, nearing correction
territory. But, Meta is down in
particular, down 1.1% and this comes
down to a New York Times report that
it's going to delay the rollout of its
new AI model Avocado because it doesn't
live up to the standards we they report
of Google's Gemini 3.0 and it hasn't
passed internal tests. Now, our analysts
at Bloomberg Intelligence say that's
just going to narrow the focus of this
product even further in the future and
so the shares down 1.1% in the
pre-market. Finally, a quick word on
Kodak. They've also had results out. So,
if we flip over, they're up 2.8%
off the back of these results. Strong
gains for revenue and profit in the
first in the fourth quarter despite that
geopolitical and macro backdrop that
you've been talking about. John, back
>> Lizzie, appreciate the update. Lizzie,
thank you very much. Lizzie Burden out
of London this morning. On our radar,
Deutsche Bank revealing a $30 exposure
to private credit, one of the highest of
Wall Street banks. The firm saying the
asset class makes up about 5% of its
loan book and identifying it as a key
risk. Elsewhere, four US service members
have died after a US refueling plane
crashed Thursday in Iraq. Central
Command saying the incident was not the
result of hostile or friendly fire and
is launching an investigation. And
finally, the US freeing up tens of
millions of barrels of Russian crude for
cargoes already at sea in a bid to curb
rising crude prices. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Benson saying it was
quote unfortunate that Moscow stands to
gain from the conflict with Iran.
>> So this is the second time we've seen in
just a matter of days that the
administration is making it easier for
Russian barrels to hit the market. One
thing I will say, Westpac Banking head
of commodities came out and said of
course this helps in any supply small,
but it's not the silver bullet and
talked about how a third of this oil is
stranded off the shores of China and a
lot of this is going to go into Chinese
coffers. One thing to note, the Russians
are absolutely gloating. Kirill Dmitriev
who's the envoy who's dealing with Steve
Witkoff and Jared Kushner 2 hours ago,
buy Russian oil and gas maintain a
balanced energy supply. They are
absolutely victorious right now in this
moment cuz not just are they able to get
more barrels out, but the price is
higher. This is the reason why President
Trump came out and talked about how the
US would do better because of higher oil
revenues because right now this is a
quagmire from a messaging standpoint.
Not only are oil prices in the US
rising, but potentially it could benefit
US adversaries at the same time.
>> They're compromising foreign policy
objectives out sweat. We've talked about
that as we've tracked this story over
the last 2 weeks or so.
In the perspective from the perspective
of the US administration, the wrong
people are getting the wins here and
it's not just the Russians. Iran, we
often talk about the choke point through
the Strait of Hormuz and energy's not
getting through. Energy's getting
through. Iranian crude is getting
through. That's a problem and that crude
is getting through at a higher price.
>> Exactly. So Iranian crude is getting
through. We've seen that from Kepler
data. We also see this in a mission
yesterday from the Treasury Secretary.
He said some ships are getting through.
Well obviously the Iranians are allowing
their ships to go through and maybe some
also as well vessels that are Chinese
flagged. And all of this is going to
China which the administration has been
trying to obviously have a better trade
balance with and also are competing with
on a number of issues.
>> Let's keep it on energy. Rachel Ziemba
of the Center for a New American
Security writes in the following,
"Traders will assume the US will
continue such measures as long as Hormuz
is shut and will be skeptical of
post-war pressure on Russia due to a
widening gap between the US and the EU."
Rachel joins us now for more. Rachel,
welcome to the program.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> How much of a mess are we in right now?
>> I think we're in quite a quite a mess
and the issue now is I mean the most
charitable read on the decision last
night was that Russian oil prices were
already high and that if this
lifting if the sanctions easing didn't
happen that China would be getting all
of all of the gains. The challenge is
here that it's not enough barrels the
end of the day it's not clear
that it we're we're getting closer to
the end of the war and reopening Hormuz.
And at the end of the day for the energy
markets that's what needs to happen. And
it means but this uncertainty means that
even US producers here can't really
benefit because they don't want to start
investing more
uh in the risk that there's demand
destruction ahead or that suddenly um
the war is over and this 50 million
barrels is back on the market. So, uh
you know, here in the US we don't have
lots of surplus capacity that we can
flood the market with. So, I I think
it's it's a very difficult situation.
>> I'm sure you've seen the research coming
out of the banks. This was Goldman. "Any
oil prices are likely to exceed the 2008
peak if flows through the strait remain
depressed through March." What's the
date on the calendar that you're focused
on?
>> Yeah, I mean I think right now it's it's
hard Everybody has their models. It's
hard to think about where the prices go
cuz at a certain point it's more
symbolic than than actually based on
market models. But I am really watching
you know, where we are in early April,
right? That's when the physical supply
risks
uh of you know, sort of really mount,
right? Because a number of energy
producers, especially Iran, but also
Saudi Arabia, they front-loaded it. They
sent more vessels out.
Um, and and that's So, that's when I
think, you know, things would start to
bite. That's also when we'll be
watching, are have these additional
barrels from, uh, the G7, from the IEA,
you know, stockpile release, are they
coming to market? And I'm watching as
much, not just crude oil, but product
markets, diesel, jet fuel, um, and also
the cascading effects that we're seeing
in Asia of chemical pro- plants shutting
down and and the like. So, I think, if
we're not at a point where the ceilings
are reopened towards the end of the
month, we'll be in we'll be in a, well,
even more difficult situation.
>> When does demand destruction kick in?
>> I think we're starting to see it
already.
Um, maybe more so, uh, in Asia, we're
seeing mandated moves across Southeast
Asia, uh, to reduce demand. But we're
seeing it even in Europe, I think, on
the power side.
Uh, the gas, natural gas, spiked even
more quickly than oil, just once the
Qataris started to shut in production.
And we saw TTF spike up, was it last
week? Um, and now we're sort of seeing
it flat in part cuz at those prices,
people don't want to buy. Um, and that's
going to kick in especially later this
year when normally, uh, producers would
be, uh, injecting more fuel. It's at
storage time. So, I think we'll start
seeing some switches to coal where that
can happen. We'll start seeing some
rationing. And, you know, here in the
United States, we're a bit more
sheltered on on especially the natural
gas side because we can't export a lot
more capacity than we're already doing.
But still, we're already at a point
where electricity pri- uh prices were a
salient political issue in the midterms,
they were a big issue in the off-year
elections last year, and so now we're
looking at prices at the pump being more
expensive as well as electricity bills.
>> Well, I guess the key question for
economists has been when does this end
up suppressing growth in a material way?
And most people seem to say not until it
goes on for months or or a longer period
of time. And then I think about spring
break and how a number of people are
saying, "I'm not going to fly anywhere
because the prices have gone up 40%,
30%," and it's not worth it. I mean, are
we already seeing that start to trickle
in on the margins in the US or is that
mostly an Asia story, a Europe story for
now?
>> I think it's mostly an Asia-Europe
story. Um I guess it depends how
quickly, how short-term people buy their
spring break tickets. I often uh
sometimes I travel short-term, but a lot
of times, you know, I have I have some
trips booked out through the spring. I'd
be more worried about how people are
going to travel and drive this summer.
People are making those decisions. We're
seeing um airlines in Asia and elsewhere
start to put on fuel surcharges.
Um so those dynamics. Now, here in the
US, I think, you know, we've seen the
drivers of growth
around AI and AI rollout. Imports have
been driven by AI. Some of that will
continue, but that's where I start to
worry about, you know, memory chip
prices were already going up, and now
there helium shortages. Helium's used in
semiconductors. Taiwan is one of the
countries that is quite high on a pain
point schedule uh level, however you
measure it. Um not having a lot of
reserves
um
uh and the like. And there are other
countries like like India. My sense is
in the US, the worry is more are we
going to be in some version of a growth
slowdown and, you know, the dreaded I'm
not ready to call it stagflation yet,
but, you know, we were seeing prices of
other goods start to go up, especially,
you know, healthcare and and the like.
And so I do think this puts the Fed in a
tricky, you know, in a tricky position.
That being said, the right thing to do
from just a commodity shock like this is
probably to look through it. But this is
an economy where we're not adding jobs,
really, right? And where where prices
are going up. And so I I think globally
um this is more of a of a risk to growth
rather than sign of some sort of
recession.
Uh but you know, it there's also a risk
that investment slow down as well. A
long-term investments, infrastructure
projects both in the Gulf region, uh but
also questions internationally.
>> Two months ago and 10 days, the United
States captured Nicholas Maduro. We have
seen companies like Chevron say they're
going to expand production. Could that
be a lever this administration leans
more into given what's going on in the
region?
>> Yeah, I think it'll reinforce their
priority on that. Um we've seen uh a
brew of different uh administration
officials in in Caracas. There investor
trips, I think going on this month.
Um you know, and we've seen Venezuelan
production go basically back up to where
it was in the fall of last year, maybe
getting close to where we were at the
beginning of the second Trump
administration. Uh one one and change
million barrels a day. Um the challenge
is it's not easy to bring a lot of more
supply online quickly. So it's more
again, we're back to this medium-term
question of is the demand going to be
there a year from now, 5 years from now?
Um so so I think we'll see producers
already present adding, you know, in the
neighborhood of a few hundred thousand
barrels a day. Every barrel helps to be
clear. But I don't think we're going to
see the kind of investment that uh takes
us to, you know, that helps us fill this
gap, this this 10 million barrels a day
gap of things that that either are not
going through the Strait of Hormuz or
can't be diverted through other
pipelines.
>> Rachel, it's good to see you. Thanks for
coming in. Thanks for dropping by.
Rachel Ziemba there breaking down the
moves in crude. This was always the
nuclear option, the so-called nuclear
option, and the Iranians have taken it.
>> They've taken it and they are vowing
that they want to keep it this way, and
they even say that they're more than
happy to pushing prices up to $200 when
it comes to Brent. What would that do to
gasoline prices? That's going to be well
above $5 a gallon.
>> Holding on to triple digits right now,
$100 on Brent. Program note for you,
8:00 a.m. Eastern time, so about an hour
and 15 minutes away, the Pentagon press
briefing with Defense Secretary Pete
Hegseth and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, Air Force General Dan Cain. A
little bit later this morning, we'll
bring you some headlines from that. Up
next on the program, managing wartime
risk.
>> An oil shock creates an impetus for
potentially more inflation. If we see
kind of a continuous impetus higher for
inflation, then yeah, absolutely, you
can see a sustained move up in long
rates.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Jordan
Rochester of Mizuho live from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
In yesterday's session, settling above
$100 a barrel for the first time since
2022. This morning, just breaking below
that level, just briefly, 99.50 on
Brent. We're negative about 1%. That's
the story in commodities, story in
equities, muted price action through
much of this morning. Equity futures on
the S&P just about positive by 10th of
1%. Leon Cooperman speaking to Bloomberg
News with this to say, I look around the
world and I say between Iran and the
lack of leadership in Washington that
the market doesn't deserve to be where
it's selling. Lisa, Leon says it's too
expensive.
>> Which is a reason why people are
shedding risk heading into the weekends
this morning. Maybe we're going to get a
rally, who knows? It's early days, but
right now a real sense of fear and
you're seeing that in the whipsaw that
we've seen in terms of the action in oil
prices and frankly the volatility that's
implied to both stocks as well as
treasuries.
>> Under Savannah's this morning, managing
wartime risk.
>> An oil shock creates an impetus for
potentially more inflation. And so
you're seeing bond yields move up
precisely at a time when investors need
that hedge in their portfolio. If we see
kind of a continuous impetus higher for
inflation, then yeah, absolutely you can
see a sustained move up in long rates
against the backdrop also of a fiscal
backdrop and a widening deficit, you
know, that it's just not resolving
itself.
>> So here's the latest this morning, the
dollar strengthening to its highest
level since May as rising crude prices
add to inflation fears. Jordan Rochester
of Mizuho writing, we remain long the
dollar but are essentially positioned
for higher oil and its proxies through
inflation. Jordan joins us now for more.
Jordan, welcome to the show. You said it
early and you said it quickly. We'd see
a break from 118 to 115 on euro-dollar.
We've now broken below 115. You called
it a terms of trade shock. Are you
staying with that trade this morning?
>> Absolutely. We're near our initial
target which is 114 John and we're just
going to roll it. The the lessons from
2022 is you need to be bold, you need to
be quick, and you need to get to grips
with the correlations are going to
shift. Now with FX it's always a bit of
a nightmare knowing what's going to be
the next driver. Is it interest rates?
Is it sort of equity flows? This time
round it's going to be energy and and
for the past two weeks now we've
essentially had front-end interest rates
very highly correlated to the price of
oil and natural gas. And foreign
exchange it's going to be similar. It's
difficult to to do a sort of day-to-day
correlation on all these assets with FX
cuz there's so many different flows.
It's not just the energy flows, but it's
also commercial flows when it comes to
import and trade and so forth and FX
hedging for those risks, too. But John,
I think the valuations of the euro
versus the dollar, the same for the
pound, the same for the yen, will
continue to fall as long as oil stays at
these levels. The only reason we've not
moved faster is because markets, John,
have essentially got an assumption that
this could be a quick war and the Strait
of Hormuz could reopen the next two to
three weeks. And and time is not on your
side cuz as each passing day goes on,
John, that assumption gets a little bit
of a crack at the the breaking of the
dam. And when we get to the end of this
month, if we've not seen the strait
reopen, we could see much lower levels
in the in the price of the euro versus
the dollar, John. I think we've got to
start talking about the levels of 1.10
if we we're here in a month's time
talking about the exact same thing.
>> Jordan, can you tell me about
positioning? Because clearly this market
is caught offside. Coming into this
year, if I'd asked an FX strategist
where the dollar's going to be, they
would say weaker. Overwhelmingly, that
would have been the call. How offside is
position still? How much capitulation
have we seen?
>> There's been a lot of capitulation,
especially in the options market. You've
seen a big flip of that. But in the
futures market, which which is slower
and and the move hasn't been ginormous
in terms of the grand scheme of things.
So it hasn't washed everybody out yet.
So we went into this, John, with
actually near record longs in euro in
the future space. Even though it's only
a proxy for overall positioning, there's
still a lot of de-dollarization
narratives that were put out there in
various formats. So I'd say we're
probably a half to to to three quarters,
John, of of washed out.
>> Just to put this another way, how much
are people re-embracing the idea of the
dollar as a safe haven and avoiding some
hedges and other aspects to diversify
that people were talking about earlier
in the year?
>> It's difficult to say the dollar's a
safe haven given the correlations
between the dollar and equity markets
still remains in flux, but what you can
say is when there's a rush for oil
assets, a rush for natural gas assets
and those exports, it's all in dollars.
So, in this crisis, it definitely is
your sort of risk-off hedge. If you get
risk-off in terms of an oil price spike,
the dollar will rally.
>> At this point, there's also a question
of what the ECB can do given the fact
that the market had been pricing in one
or even two rate hikes from the European
Central Bank. At what point will that
start to support the euro given the fact
that right now it seems to be completely
trading on growth differentials?
>> Well, it's
it's the lesson from 2022. Do not use
interest rates with for the ECB and your
view on them hiking as your guide for
the valuation in the currency. That's
what we learned from 2022. The
correlation broke down between rates in
various stages, and we just kept seeing
euro grind lower as European importers
were trying to buy as much US LNG gas
and oil that they could. So, I think
with the ECB, they're actually in a
pretty good position. Inflation's at or
around target. The unemployment rate in
the EU is at record lows, and growth
isn't that bad thanks to the German
fiscal stimulus. So, I do think if we
stay at these levels in oil, we could
get a hike from the ECB, and that could
be one of the first flips from one of
the major central banks. The Bank of
England was already raising rates, but
they're going to be a bit more reluctant
to hike just given the fact they want to
see the data, and they've already been
hiking so fast. So, it's not they're not
going to be in a rush. It's in the US
where you've got still about 19 basis
points of rate cuts priced for this year
end. I think that needs to keep coming
out the curve. The only problem with
that is we all know the job interview of
Kevin Warsh, the question was in there,
will you cut rates?
>> And we also know how the president feels
because yesterday he's saying that the
Fed should be acting even though they're
in a quiet period right now. Jordan,
when it comes to the ECB being the first
to act, when could we see that hike?
>> I think June's when
let's assume the straight stays closed
cuz the message I've been giving to
clients is we don't know when the
straight will open. We know it's closed.
So, let's just operate on that
assumption that it's closed for the
foreseeable future, the next few weeks
to months. If we're still here in June
and oil's at $100 a barrel, even if the
Strait's reopened, but it's not reopened
to its a full extent and we're still at
$100 a barrel, they go ahead in June
because every general is ready to fight
the last war. They do not want to risk
their inflation-fighting credibility
like they did in 2022. Cuz in reaction
to Ukraine, the ECB reaction was
actually to sit sit and wait. And we
actually had a bit of a dovish reaction
in rates. Rates rallied initially in
response to that crisis. It's been a
much faster turnaround with the rate
sell-off this time because we all know
that central banks will be worried about
de-anchored inflation expectations. Just
like the 1970s and '80s, we had two oil
price shocks. The second oil shock was
was a much bigger impact on inflation
than the first cuz inflation
expectations had been de-anchored.
>> Jordan, it's good to see you. Thank you,
buddy. Jordan Rochester there of Mazuyev
on a much, much stronger dollar.
>> We're getting a crash course in very
complex geopolitics. Two headlines. This
one a little bit earlier, NATO
intercepting an Iranian missile
targeting Turkey, followed by another
headline, that Turkish ships were
permitted by Iran to cross through the
Strait of Hormuz.
>> And what we're hearing about that
Turkish ship that was able to actually
get through safely through the Strait of
Hormuz is, quote, because it used an
Iranian port. So, clearly they currently
have no problems if they're using an
Iranian port and they have
communications, but obviously Turkey is
in a difficult position right now.
They're being missile-sent or they're
intercepting. At the same time, they
want to try to get some of their cargo
and vessels that are Turkish-flagged
through the Strait.
>> Alicia, it's difficult to get your head
around some of this stuff.
>> Right now, it seems like not only is it
a question of how this is playing out,
but it's shifting alliances at a time of
a very different geopolitical backdrop.
>> Brent crude this morning, 99.50. Up
next, Russ Bendback of BlackRock, Ed
Mills of Raymond James, Olivia Wassenaar
of Apollo, and the Port of Los Angeles
executive director Gene Seroka. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance up
next.
>> The signs of stress are there.
>> Those higher gas prices, that does mean
consumers have less to spend.
>> to challenge the benign inflation
narrative. This
>> is creating a bit of a growth shock.
>> If the conflict lasts for longer, then
we are probably going to see a refueling
of inflation.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action the scores
look like this. Equity futures on the
S&P 500 firmer by 2/10 of 1% on the
Nasdaq up .2, on the Russell up by .3.
In the commodity market, holding on to
triple digits through most of this
morning. Just moments ago, a break of
199 and down by 1.4% on Brent, on WTI
down by two. Coming up later on this
morning, two stories that connected.
There's a briefing at 8:00 a.m. Eastern
time from the Pentagon. Look out for
that. The Defense Secretary Pete
Buttigieg will be making his attempt
Then 30 minutes later, core PCE in
America, another read on inflation. And
those reads will get uglier if this
continues.
>> And this is going to be the key question
for a lot of people. How much
inflationary momentum was there in the
US economy going into what could be a
hugely inflationary event at least in
the short term. What the expectation is
that that CPI came in actually in line
with expectations. What a lot of notes
have been saying is don't expect core
PCE, the key metric that the Federal
Reserve looks at, to be the same because
even before we saw this particular
increase in oil prices, dental services
inflation, software, computer prices,
and some of the other inputs to this key
inflation metric have been going up at
an increasing pace.
>> And what you have right now is the
administration looking at any tool in
the toolbox to try to bring oil prices
lower cuz they are concerned about
higher gasoline prices, higher diesel
prices, higher fertilizer prices, all of
this across the commodity landscape. So,
what are they doing? They're easing
sanctions on Russia, which is going to
be a win for Vladimir Putin, clearly,
and creating a bigger divide between
Brussels and Washington D.C.
>> Had a big rally following the
announcement of a major reserve release.
Rally 5%, then rally 10%. Crude keeps
climbing because you cannot address, you
cannot offset what's been disrupted in
the Middle East right now. It is too
difficult.
>> Right now, the message from analysts is
loud and clear. This US administration
cannot do anything to really cap how
high oil prices can go barring a
reopening of the Strait of Hormuz. You
can argue that the releases that we've
seen so far have capped the pace at
which those oil prices are climbing at
least in the near term. But, take a look
at the forward-looking contract. I know
you've been doing that, John, and you
could see it's creeping higher. This
feeling maybe we're not going to get out
of this so quickly. And that is clearly
leading to a whole bunch of anxiety.
>> The December contract's a reality check.
You can say the curve is deeply
backwardated and you can say this is
just a story at the front end of the
curve. It's transitory, we'll get
through that. The December contract for
Brent was trading in the 60s, it's now
in the 80s. And for a lot of people in
this market, including Goldman Sachs,
they believe this goes on through the
next 24 days, the next 2 weeks, 3 weeks,
pick a number. You get into April and
this is continuing, you start to think
about 80s, 90s as an average through the
fourth quarter. That's the problem and
that's something the equity market is
not going to easily shrug off.
>> You get a step change when you start
talking about supply destruction and
delays of terms of taking things back
online, supply chains that have been
seriously disrupted. Look, this isn't an
easy thing to emerge from and the longer
it goes on, it is a step change in terms
of how significant the ramifications are
and what the potential ramifications are
for growth.
>> We're trying to figure out when the
strait would actually open, it's quite
difficult. You have the energy secretary
saying the end of the month, you have
the treasury secretary saying when we
have an international coalition
potentially we could see some ships pass
through. Helima Croft of RBC at with a
note, a postcard from Washington D.C.
Says there's a lot of skepticism that a
robust US Navy tanker escort service
will be operational soon due to capacity
constraints. So, this looks incredibly
challenging even though they
continuously say that at some point they
will have this Navy escort to be able to
escort these vessels through. That is
going to be key when we hear from the
defense secretary later this morning.
>> Brent crude 99, WTI 93. Coming up this
hour, Russ Bramback of BlackRock as
crude hovers near 100. Ed Mills of
Raymond James as the president paints
higher energy prices as a positive and
the Port of LA executive director Gene
Seroka as Iran squeezes the Strait of
Hormuz. We begin this hour with Stocks
and Kaya and crude near triple digits.
Russ Bramback of BlackRock writing
geopolitical shocks can drive volatility
but historically these episodes are
transient overlays often followed by oil
retracement. Russ joins us now for more.
Russ, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Do you and the team believe this is any
different?
>> So, you know, the reason I have all this
gray hair, I've lived through every
single
>> all. geopolitical event over the last
few years and typically Just in the last
first quarter,
>> you know.
>> Typic- Typically and listen, I have a
great deal of respect for the
open-endedness of a situation like this
and we're playing defense and I think
it's the right thing to manage to the
proper amounts of liquidity in
portfolios and just, you know, we don't
have a a lens on when this is going to
end, nobody does and so we're going to
play defense. But, typically if you look
back, the vast majority of these
geopolitical shocks, you know, have
their kind of peak to trough measured in
days and then the recovery's measured in
weeks but not months and years. And so,
I think that this one will probably
follow that pattern.
>> We've priced out a lot of easing, a
tremendous amount of easing. Do you
think there's still space here for this
Fed to cut this year?
>> Absolutely. You know, the transcendent
influence is the productivity boom
that's taking place. We just went back
and moved up our
estimate of where realized productivity
has been for the last 3 years. We're
running at 3% productivity. It's the
biggest boom we've had since the late
90s. And I think the investment that's
driving growth structurally today around
all of these, you know, headwinds and
shocks that come along is the thing that
is transcendent and will, you know, be
the story again at the end of this year.
Just like it was at the end of 2023,
we're all worried about a credit crunch
and the a regional banking crisis, the
acrimonious election in '24, the trade
shock last year.
Each of those years, we accelerated
growth into the back half of the year
for these structural influences. I don't
think this year's going to be any
different.
>> That said, how much do higher oil prices
crimp that view that productivity can
cause this sort of non-inflationary boom
that's been priced into your scenario?
>> So, you know, listen, I I I think it's
very analogous to the trade shock and it
impacts
macro at the margin, but it's not a big
enough influence at the end of the day.
The people being hurt by higher energy
prices going forward are in the same
people
that are hurt by tariffs, the same
people that are hurt by high interest
rates. That's low-income, low-wealth
consumers and any business that doesn't
have an ability to pass input costs
along. You know, look at the Beige Book.
I'm I'm a geek. I look at the Beige Book
every time, deep dive.
>> glove.
>> And
every single district, 12 out of 12,
they talk about rising input costs
and an inability to pass those input
costs along. That has been a phenomenon
for the last 18 months and it hasn't
impeded growth one bit.
>> That said, if we had not necessarily had
this particular shock and you had come
on today, we would have been talking to
you about some credit issues that we're
seeing come out, whether it's gating of
private credit funds, whether it's this
question of whether the marks are
accurate in a host of different private
credit firms and beyond. I'm just
wondering if you're already starting to
see cracks at a time where credit
conditions are tightening and whether
that could accelerate a weakness that
could offset some of the strength that
you're talking about.
>> another evolution that we have a healthy
respect for, but quite frankly, it's
welcome. You know, to the extent that we
live in a world where there's too much
money chasing too few assets and we've
had stubbornly tight spreads and
therefore a dearth of intrinsic value in
markets. To the extent that there's a
healthy sort of re-rating in the credit
markets, particularly as it pertains to
illiquid assets, that's very welcome for
us. So, we've been playing defense,
we've been raising cash, but we're
looking for these opportunities. And so,
to us, we'd welcome, you know, sort of a
re-rating to a place in markets where
intrinsic value can be reformed.
>> We're just getting some comments from
the president of the United States,
releasing some headlines here from a
pre-recorded interview over at Fox News.
We'll be hitting around very hard over
the next week. So, if you're trying to
work out the duration of this operation
in the Middle East, the president's
suggesting at least another week. Now,
you can draw your own conclusions on how
far you think this is going to go on,
but it looks like at least another week.
>> And that's actually what he put out on
Truth Social just after midnight
overnight, saying that that was going to
be happening today, warning the Iranian
authorities. He also says when it comes
to escorting tankers, which is critical
for the oil market, would do it if we
needed it to.
Well, actually, there's a lot of
reporting out there that you have Arab
countries saying that oil companies have
come to them. They've gone to the
administration saying, "Can we have that
escort?" And they said, "No, not at this
time." So, we need to learn more about
that. And potentially, the Defense
Secretary will have more to weigh in.
>> Russ, I'm always intrigued by what it
would take to change someone's mind.
What would it take to change your mind
that this is different? What would you
need to see?
>> Um,
listen, I think you need something
existential that's going to dent what is
structural
investment in something that is
absolutely profound. You know, when you
think about those productivity numbers I
just highlighted before, that's before
generative AI. So, some of the tools
that were we were all worried about in
January and February in terms of
economic disruption, they're 60 days
old. So, this
evolution of this technology is
exponential. We're all as human beings
programmed to think linearly. And when
you look at the investment for the race
for ever smarter frontier models
and then the CapEx that's going to be
needed to put inferencing into the
physical economy going forward, you need
something so existential as to, you
know, just take away the justification
for that. I don't see it.
>> Some investment opportunities right now
for you. What's on the dashboard? What
are you looking to lean into?
>> Yeah, so again, it's the age of income.
There's lots of consternation about
volatility in fixed income markets.
They're not really that volatile.
Median yield on the 10-year note 4.17%
to last 3 and 1/2 years. Is it 4.26%
today? It's an income regime. And what
you do is build upon on top of that. You
can continue to build these investment
grade rated portfolios that can yield 6
or 6 and 1/2%. And I know, you know,
that may not be as sexy as all the
factors in equity markets and the like,
but my goodness,
if you're a 60/40 portfolio, that's half
your nest egg. That's about as high
sharp ratio in asset
allocation that I can never remember.
>> I'll round it up for you. It's 4.26%
this morning. Nice to have you. Good to
see you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
Russ Brown back there of BlackRock
weighing in on this market anchored by a
very constructive view on the future of
the American economy.
>> The one that we had earlier this year
talking about artificial intelligence
and the productivity boom. This is sort
of the productivity boom that we were
hearing about earlier in the week versus
the oil shock. I'm struck by if Russ
Brown back, if you just looked at his
portfolio, you might say, "Oh, he's
getting more cautious cuz he's ready
he's raising more cash." But what we
just heard there, it's the opposite.
It's sort of preparing for uh capturing
some of the opportunities are coming in.
And that's what we keep hearing from
people, that raising cash isn't
cautious. That's actually excited for
the future.
>> An update on crude this morning. Brent
at the moment 99.90, WTI 94.40. We heard
from the president just moments ago
talking up the prospect of hitting Iran
even harder over the next week.
>> And at the same time saying would do it
if needed to when it comes to escorting
those tankers. Right now, the US Navy is
not escorting tankers to the Strait of
Hormuz, even though there have been,
say, tweets or messaging that they were
trying to do that. And the president is
up and upping the ante like he did
overnight in a Truth Social post saying
basically a warning and a threat that
this is going to continue.
>> Up next on the program, paying a big
price.
>> The situation with Iran is moving along
very rapidly.
It's uh
doing very well. Our military is
unsurpassed. They really are a
a nation of terror and hate.
And they're paying a big price right
now.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Ed Mills of
Raymond James live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Equity futures this morning firmer by
0.2% on the S&P and the Nasdaq, a 0.2%
also on the Russell, out performing by
0.4%
in the commodity market. Brent and WTI
shaping up as follows, off-session
highs, $100.30.
We're down about a tenth of 1% on Brent
crude. This from Chris Harvey of CIBC
just moments ago. The SPX is off, but
optimism isn't. Stocks are down, but
they're not oversold. Sentiment is
slipping, but not broken. And the S&P
500 dropped more than 4% from the peak,
but no market washout in sight. However,
Serta market cohorts are worried about
missing a taco-inspired stock pop
despite the difficulty of putting Humpty
Dumpty back together again.
>> Conditioned by experience, we keep going
back to this whenever there is a feeling
that you have in your gut that
everything is falling apart. Usually,
there is a policy bazooka that comes out
to comfort all, and that's what the
market is preparing for because the
rip-roaring rally in response to that
could be significant. This time, it does
seem a bit more complicated to, quote
him, put Humpty Dumpty back together.
>> foolish in April, didn't you? When we
rallied that hard off the low, that you
stepped down to the market. So, you want
to stay in.
>> How about Yeah, how about the epidemic?
>> The same thing. I get it. With this
though, the pushback you're getting from
commodity experts is that this isn't
just in the president's hands.
There was no retaliation last year when
it came to tariffs. There was no war. He
could dial up tariffs and dial them back
down again. This is way more complex
with the Iranians involved.
>> You're right to keep watching the
forward oil contracts because that's
where people are putting money on how
long this could last and how difficult
it is to put Humpty Dumpty back together
again and have a policy response. And
increasingly, we're hearing people say,
"Look, this administration cannot
single-handedly put a cap on global oil
markets."
>> And the Saudis are this morning paying a
big price.
>> The situation with Iran is moving along
very rapidly.
It's uh
doing very well. Our military is
unsurpassed. There's never been anything
like it. Nobody's ever seen anything
like it.
And we're doing what has to be done.
Should have been done
during a 47-year period. They really are
a
a nation of terror and hate.
And they're paying a big price right
now.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Brent crude hovering near $100 a barrel
as the White House offers no clear
off-ramp for the war with Iran, the
president putting a positive spin on
higher energy costs writing in a social
media post quote, "When oil prices go
up, we make a lot of money." Bloomberg's
Jeff Mason joins us now from Washington,
D.C. Jeff, how risky is this bet that
this president is willing to take?
>> Well, he's making a sales pitch there
talking about the United States bringing
in money when oil prices go up and I
think the question politically is does
that sales pitch resonate with his base
and with American voters because there
may be more money coming into Treasury
from higher oil prices, but it's also
going out of consumers' pockets and
that's what they'll think about when
they head to the voting booth in
November.
>> Jeff, we're going to hear from the
defense secretary today. The president
was just speaking on Fox News saying
that if we need to, we will when it
comes to escorting tankers through the
Strait of Hormuz. Where is the
administration right now on actually
getting the Navy together to be able to
do that?
>> Well, I think that goes back to some of
the contradictory messages that they've
been sending. They want market
participants and they want the
the world, they want this country to
know that they have a backup plan for
getting oil through the Strait of
Hormuz, but they haven't sent those
ships to do that because the US assets
are focused on the war and that's
exactly what Secretary Wright said in
the clip that you played in the in the
last hour. So, I think that's the open
question and maybe Secretary Heggseth
will give will shed some light on that,
but it it's it's another part of the
pattern of the president and his people
sending mixed messages trying to say
trying to send reassurance to the market
and yet not necessarily right away
following through because they've got
another priority and that's the actual
military action against Iran.
>> Jeff, how lonely is this effort right
now? We talk about the Strait of Hormuz
being effectively closed. It is
effectively closed, but there are some
ships still getting through. Iranian
ships, of course, getting through. There
was a report earlier on this morning
that a Turkish ship got through. I saw
another headline about an Indian ship
getting through. How alone is the US
right now?
>> Well, you know, I think the president
said in the last couple of day or two
that that oil producers and and ship
shipping companies need to be brave and
show some courage.
That's pretty easy to say from
Washington D.C. If you're the company
that is making those decisions, if
you're the ships that are making those
decisions, there is a lot of danger. So,
I think your question is right. Of
course it's lonely, but the president is
used to kind of getting his way and this
is a war. It's different.
>> Jeff, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Jeff Mason in there down in
Washington, D.C. Ed Morse of Raymond
James writing, "The decision to claim
victory and the ability to actually
cease hostilities are two very separate
issues." Ed joins us now for more. Ed,
it's that line we've repeated a few
times already this week. Wars easy to
start, very difficult to end. How
difficult is it to win this one?
>> Well, I think that what we're trying to
say there, John, is that we could see a
declaration of it's over, but it is a
question on does that match what Israel
wants to do? Does that match what Iran
is willing to do and what Iranian
response is, especially if the regime
stays in place, is a big wild card. We
didn't see the president really identify
exactly what victory look like and so
his ability to say he's achieved that
victory, to make sure that the American
people stay with him, as well as the
markets don't overly correct related to
this is what we've been focused most at
Raymond James because when we saw kind
of the it might be almost over earlier
than expected when President Trump said
that this week, we saw the market
reaction to that. So, that's why I think
people are really looking to see what
his words are versus what the actual
reality in terms of how long this lasts
ultimately will be, John.
>> Well, the president's words this morning
on Fox are pretty clear. He says the US
will be hitting Iran, quote, very hard
over the next week and then said he
would do it if we need to in terms of
escorting the ships, but you know,
hopefully things are going to go very
well. We're going to see what happens.
So, Ed, it seems like the direction of
travel is that they're doubling down to
want to finish the job in Iran. What
does that mean politically for the
administration going into the summer and
peak driving season?
>> Yeah, Amery, I think it's just a real
question on is it just another week? Is
it 2 weeks? Does it go into April? I do
think that this administration has
conditioned this to be about a
month-long conflict. There's growing
questions that I've been getting is
whether or not this is going to be
settled before Trump and Xi sit down on
March 31st. That would be consistent
with a really increased attention and
kind of activity over 1 week, maybe
being able to wind it down before that
summit were to occur. Um from a
political perspective, the longer this
lasts, the more difficult it's going to
be for Republicans to maintain their
control of Congress, especially the
House of Representatives. The Senate
becomes more of a question at that
point. If people are paying more at the
pump, if people think the direction of
this country is in the wrong track, and
if there is a war that they don't
support, that has never been a recipe to
win at the ballot box. Ed, I'm really
pleased you brought up the meeting with
Xi Jinping. Is it going to be asked of
this administration for the Chinese to
put pressure on the Iranians to open up
the strait?
>> Uh potentially. We do think that part of
the reason why we haven't seen kind of
as much kind of kinetic activity in the
strait is because of the pressure that
China has put on Iran. About 50% of the
oil that kind of China imports goes
through the Straits of Hormuz. So, we
have seen some reports that they are
attempting to mine. Those are the most
troubling reports that we have because
to de-mine is going to be very, very
difficult. So, to the extent that we can
put pressure on China, and China can put
pressure on Iran, that is a
de-escalatory effort. But, I think that
it's a real wild card because the fact
that Trump and Xi want to keep a detente
at a time that Trump is escalating
something that is really important to
China is not consistent with that
detente.
>> Are you getting a better handle on what
an off-ramp looks like given how this is
escalating, how this is benefiting
places like Russia, even like China, and
certainly Iran at least from a financial
standpoint given that they can continue
to export oil? I mean, do you have a
clear sense of that road map?
>> No, and I think that that's a real
problem. And Lisa, I think that the
concern that I've had is that we have
not necessarily articulated exactly what
that end result is. I think what we hear
often times when we ask the question,
how long does this last? It's like, oh,
it should be about 3 weeks, 4 weeks, it
might go a little bit longer than a
month. And then I ask the question to
any of my contacts, well, what happens
at that point? And that's where I don't
get any consistent answer. And the
inability to answer the question, what
happens at that point, is a real
problem. We don't know who is going to
be in charge in Iran. We have a new
Ayatollah. He is not someone that the
United States wants to negotiate with.
He is not someone that is reform-minded.
He is arguably even more hardline than
his father. We don't know exactly what
the Israelis are willing to do. We don't
know what the rest of the Gulf states
are going to do. We just talked about
China. All of those unanswered questions
are a big problem. The market hasn't
responded to that because they hope that
President Trump pivots and declares
victory, but until we get a good answer
to that, this is a going to weigh on us.
>> More people are talking about the
potential for ground troops to go in to
withdraw some of the enriched uranium as
one of the goals of the Trump
administration. What do you think the
political response would be to that
measure?
>> Yeah, so Lisa, I think it depends on who
are those ground troops. Are they
American ground troops? Are they kind of
Israeli ground troops? Is it a other
force, a Kurdish force?
Is there going to be something more
strategic? I've gotten questions here at
Raymond James about uh trying to capture
Kharg Island, use that as a bargaining
chip. Um so, until we know those
specifics, um
we have a hard time answering that, but
to the extent that it is a larger US
force, uh that's where we kind of
continue to bring up questions about the
comparisons to Iraq, uh and any
comparison to Iraq politically,
economically, from a military
perspective, are not good.
>> Ed Mills of Raymond James, I'd thank
you. Whenever we have this conversation
about a ground incursion,
90 million people, Tehran's about 9
million, we're talking about a coastline
that's more than a thousand miles long.
You know, when we really start to talk
about this stuff, you have to talk about
the details.
Because some of the conversations I hear
about going into Iran, a ground
incursion, some of the conversations I'm
hearing absolutely ridiculous without
any degree of understanding what that
country's all about.
>> be naive to not think that the US
military doesn't have a plan in place if
they had to do this, but this isn't
Venezuela. This isn't going to be an
overnight quick operation to capture
Nicolas Maduro and then have a number
two in place that you can basically
operate as a puppet of the United
States. This is a completely different
scenario.
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Olivia Wassenaar of Apollo as crude
continues to climb over the last week.
Plus, Danny's going to drop by with your
morning movers. Fertilizer stocks rising
as ships struggle to move through the
Strait of Hormuz. More on that, and plus
the move in gasoline. Before this war
started, $2.98 a gallon. Right now,
$3.63
and climbing. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Three day losing streak on the S&P 500,
looking to bounce by third of 1% on the
S&P this morning. On the Nasdaq, on the
Russell, we're set up as follows. On the
Nasdaq, positive by 0.3. On the Russell,
some outperformance of small caps up by
0.5.
Setting the tone, pulling back from
triple digits briefly on Brent crude.
Check out the commodity market, Brent
and WTI. Brent right now 99.94,
negative by 0.5%. WTI down by 1.35. That
has set the tone for the bond market as
well at the front end of the curve.
Two-year bond yields, the highest since
August, and that's pushing a much, much
stronger US dollar. 370 at the front end
of the curve, around 375 in the last 24
hours. The euro breaking through 1.15 to
1.14, the weakest since last summer. The
yen, the weakest since 2024, pushing
1.60 this morning.
>> Just really the pain trade on steroids
here, given the fact that people had
been expecting rate cuts by the Fed,
rates on hold around the world, and the
idea of dollar weakening. Right now,
you're seeing reversal of all of that.
35 basis points is how much two-year
yields have risen since the beginning of
this month, and you have to ask, is it
because of totally removing rate cutting
expectations? Is this just a flight to
haven? Is it everything? Hard to get
exactly a signal, but the move index,
the implied volatility in 10-year
Treasury yields, spiked upwards, the
highest since last year, and you can
imagine there'll be more of the same.
>> Things are super, super fluid right now,
and very headline driven. Another
headline from the president of the
United States in an interview with an
American broadcaster recorded a little
bit earlier. Take a listen to this.
"Putin might be helping Iran a little
bit. Putin probably thinks we're helping
Ukraine." A curious headline from the
president just months ago.
>> And he's accurate. Putin is though
helping Iran, but I wouldn't say a
little bit, I would say a lot. I mean,
you have to go back to the start of this
war as well. Russia has been attacking
Ukraine, start of the war for Russia's
invasion of Ukraine, by buying Shahadi
drones, already helping Iran. And also,
there's reporting that potentially
they're helping them as well with intel
and what is going on in terms of on the
ground and where US service members are
stationed. So, yeah, Putin might be
helping Iran. I would just say not a
little bit, I would say a lot.
>> Is the Treasury helping Russia?
>> Of course.
>> The Treasury Secretary with more easing
of sanctions to allow others to buy
Russian crude.
>> Second time in a matter of days we've
eased up the United States according to
OFAC issuing these general licenses.
First it was to help some of these
stranded barrels go to India. Now it's
to help any oil that is currently in the
sea for anyone to buy. Mostly this is
going to go a lot of this to China, some
to India, then the rest in the
Mediterranean, the Atlantic Ocean. But
what you are seeing right now is the
administration almost grasping for
straws. Anything they could possibly get
their hands on to ease the oil price.
That's what I see from the president
this morning. Brent set 99 at about 80
cents.
>> Let's get you an update on some movers
out there two hours away from the
opening bell. Your morning movers with
Danni Burger. Hey Danni.
>> Hey John, I want to show you what some
of the stocks that have been sensitive
to the war have been doing. Starting
with the energy producers Exxon,
Chevron, Occidental. Not moving a lot
this morning getting whipsawed with the
price of oil.
Uh, now with oil the first time closing
over $100 a barrel since August of 2022.
Exxon is up about 3 and 1/2% on the
week. That more or less matches the move
in WTI. Chevron it's only up a little
bit more than 1%. So the other along
with energy stocks has been the
fertilizers cuz we know the straight up
war moves is also a choke point for
fertilizing equipment. And again, these
have been some of the best performers on
the S&P 500. Mosaic the best one up just
1% this morning. CF Industries up 2/10
of a percent. So you get this
a little bit more calm in the markets
after a big run up that we've had so far
this week. Finally, some corporate news.
Adobe, their CEO Narayan will be
stepping down. Questions over his
ability to guide the company through
this new era of AI where it's easier to
make images with AI tools and not Adobe.
He's been at the company for 18 years.
He's going to stay on until they find a
successor, but they've announced that
he's stepping down in the meantime.
These shares getting crushed over the
past year about 30% down. Shares down
7.8% in the pre-market, John.
>> Danny, thanks for the update. More from
Danny Burger in the next hour. And I
write down this morning, the US allowing
for the purchase of Russian crude
already at sea. The Treasury Secretary
Scob Easton telling British media, it's
quite unfortunate that Moscow stands to
gain from the conflict with Iran.
Elsewhere, the secretary also saying the
US Navy will assist in escorting ships
through the Strait of Hormuz, quote, as
soon as militarily possible. Iran's new
supreme leader issuing a statement for
the first time yesterday saying the
critical waterway should remain closed.
And finally, the White House launching a
fresh round of tariff-related
investigations looking at potential
forced labor practices. The process is
likely to result in new levies after the
Supreme Court deemed President Trump's
tariffs illegal.
>> Look, we had to expect this given the
timeline. At the same time, it's a bit
of an awkward situation given the fact
the cost of living is a concern and
tariffs kind of go against that.
>> Hard to keep up with this, isn't it?
>> I think that that's an understatement,
John.
>> You know, in the background, just more
and more efforts to put on tariffs on
more and more partners at a time when
they're in the Middle East trying to
conduct a war with Iran.
>> Well, the issue is is that right now
they're conducting their tariff policy
off of 122's given the fact the Supreme
Court struck down AIPA. 122's only last
till July. So, Jamison Greer, it's
really for him do or die right now. He
has to get on it for these
investigations or he's going to lose
that ability and they're going to have
another gap where they don't have the
tariff revenue coming in. And this is a
critical part of the president's agenda.
It's also interesting cuz the Treasury
Secretary and Jamison Greer will be
meeting with Holly Fong of China this
week in Paris. All of this is setting
the stage for the president's trip over
to Beijing.
>> And that is going to be quite a meeting
next month, that's for sure. Let's keep
it on energy. Brent crude closing above
$100 for the first time since August of
2022. Millions of barrels of oil trapped
in the Persian Gulf as Iran clamps down
on the Strait of Hormuz. Oliver the head
of the infrastructure group of Apollo
writing broad global impacts are
reinforcing the importance of energy
security and expansion. Oliver joins us
now for more. Oliver, good morning. It's
good to see you.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me.
>> Clearly the emphasis is on security
right now. There is a difference though
between what America has done, what
Europe hasn't done, and what China is
doing. What's the biggest difference
between the three at the moment?
>> I think biggest difference you're seeing
right now is in the European market.
This is having a really big direct
impact. Gas prices are up 70% since the
beginning of the year. And you're
looking at really what is this due to
manufacturing? What is this due to
economic growth in Europe? There's a
real focus on, you know, on how we're
conceptualizing this.
In the US, big big focus on, you know,
what we call halo assets, right? Power
plants, pipelines,
renewable energy projects. You're really
seeing a a focus on, you know, how do we
continue to invest in and continue to
have value in some of these longer-term
assets that are so critical for
infrastructure in these individual
nations.
>> Europe has clearly made some massive
mistakes being highly dependent on
Russian natural gas, and we've seen that
play out back in 2022. What have they
done since then?
>> Big focus on renewable energy since
then. So, a couple things we've been
focused on there. Last year, we funded
Hornsea 3, which is the largest offshore
wind project in Europe. That's about 3
gigawatts of offshore wind alongside
Orsted. That was a $6.5 billion deal for
us.
We look at that as providing, you know,
clean and, you know, also reliable
energy for, you know, homes across the
UK.
We're seeing a a real proliferation of
projects like that across Europe to make
sure you have those, you know, that
built-in power security. We've invested
in two projects with BP on the gas side
in Europe to make sure that you've got
real security there. So, I think it's
been a real focus on making sure that
that that they sort of have their house
in order. The other thing you've really
seen is a focus on energy efficiency.
You know, how do we think about actually
not just the the demand side, but also
the supply side. And on the demand side,
focusing on, you know, what are we doing
in homes? What are we doing in
businesses to making sure we're using
energy, and really limiting that
dependence.
>> It's incredibly ironic because this year
has been all about kind of the green
agenda getting put on the back burner
and some of the questions around some of
the
retracements in US policy. How much does
this reignite interest in energy
efficiency and frankly renewable energy
products in the United States that had
been kind of
out of favor, I should say, for a while.
>> Absolutely. I mean, this is going to
serve, I think, as a huge catalyst for
uh revisiting that and reinvesting in
those. I mean, if you look at what
happened in the 1970s, right? That's
when we first saw fuel standards, when
we first saw the development of
alternative energy. I I think you're
going to see something similar now,
where you've got a real refocus on how
do we improve domestic energy supply,
and how do we look at other forms uh of
of power and energy that rely less on
oil and gas.
>> So, I know it's been a busy couple of
years and that people have been talking
about reinvesting in physical
infrastructure since the pandemic and
discussion about supply chains, etc. Can
you give us a sense of the past 2 weeks
and the inbound calls that you've been
receiving from potential investors?
>> Absolutely. I mean, first and foremost,
um my phone's been ringing off the hook.
It's It's funny. Um energy and
infrastructure were sleepy for a little
while. Uh in the last year or so, you
know, between data centers and now
what's going on with global energy
supply, uh we're certainly seeing, you
know, a real inbound on people asking a
lot of questions. What does this mean?
What is it Where Where should I be
putting capital? Where should I be
focusing? Um we've continued to focus
on, you know, on this concept of these
halo hard assets, limited obsolescence
risk. I think that continues to be a
really interesting long-term play. So,
think about that as things like power
plants, gas pipelines, airports,
um you know, renewable energy projects.
Really things where um you know, where
where there's this ongoing view that we
are going to need these not just for the
medium term, but for the long term as
well.
>> Do you get a sense that continents and
countries are starting to really hoard?
Jeff Currie talked about this this week.
>> Yes. Uh 100%. I I think that's a I think
you're seeing that you're seeing it out
of Asia for sure.
Um you know, you're certainly seeing,
you know, a refocus on what is my
domestic supply. Um and by the way, it's
not just around things like, you know,
oil and gas. You know, this takes a, you
know, bigger impact as you think about
things like metals, things like helium,
for example. Um really looking at other
parts of the global supply chain.
>> When it comes to the Middle East, you
mentioned Europe, you mentioned America.
We There was a year ago huge projects
being talked about when it comes to AI
data centers in the Middle East. Have
they now been basically people having to
rethink how those will actually look in
this new age given the security threat?
>> It's so interesting cuz the Middle East
has really developed as a key area of
data and AI. And you've seen some
massive projects announced over the last
6 months in that area. And when you've
seen what's coming out of the news,
those are areas that are potentially
targets now. Um so, we think of we think
of these as, you know, really, you know,
what what we can use to sort of expand
the AI revolution. When you're looking
at the Iranians, they're seeing these as
potential centers of vulnerability, of
areas where there's been massive
investment, and potentially taking these
out could have a huge impact.
>> Olivia, before you go, let's finish
where we started. The different approach
we're seeing from the US, Europe, and
from China. How vulnerable is the
American approach to political cycles?
Because you mentioned renewables, that
effort is ongoing, but it's not
supported by this administration. How
secure are some of those investments?
>> I
The US continues to take a bit of an all
of the above approach, right? I mean, we
just need with there's such a voracious
appetite for energy and power in the US
right now. There's obviously a big push
around oil and gas, but we're seeing it
around all forms of of power as well.
For example, we made an investment last
year in a hydro business, right? Base
load green power. We think this is
something that'll be hugely valuable in
the long term. So, really continuing to
look at things that will hold that
long-term value, but just given the need
for increase in power in the US, it it
can't just be from one source or other.
We need to really focus on what we can
scale and what we can scale quickly.
>> Olivia, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Busy time for you, I know. One of
Apollo's best, Olivia Wassenaar there,
breaking down the energy security and
the amount of hoarding, to your point,
that we could see in the next 12 months.
>> Yeah, and you raise a good point about
how every region has taken a different
approach from a policy standpoint. The
practicality though is you need to fuel
all this stuff, right? I mean, you need
to fuel some of the AI projects, etc.
So, people are going to invest in what
they can. Do you know that the world's
biggest volcano is actually here and
it's Yellowstone? And if you think about
Iceland, it's powered by geothermal
activity. And I'm just thinking to
myself, you know, what if you tap it?
I'm just thinking about loud, but I'm
just thinking about all of these things,
you know.
>> Well, I'm I'm good you're taking care of
business for us, so.
>> I I just, you know, I think it could
power a lot of the West.
>> All right. Okay.
Is that just you or are other people
looking at this?
>> No, nobody's looking at that because
they want to preserve the land. But if
you think about it, it is actually
incredible source of energy.
>> Where are you taking us this morning,
Olivia?
>> idea.
>> All right. Up next on the program,
appetite for disruption.
>> The scenario of the use of these
floating vessels, we don't see appetite
from shipping companies to take that
that option at all right now. We don't
think that this is likely to happen
anytime soon.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Gene
Seroka, the Port of LA executive
director, live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Crude down 1% on Brent this morning,
back to $99 a barrel on Brent crude, up
on the week by about 7% still, up on the
month by 37% and on the month higher by
$27
a barrel. The story so far this month
has changed a tremendous amount. In the
equity market, equity futures look like
this on the S&P, the Nasdaq, and the
Russell. Futures on the S&P positive by
0.4% following a 3-day losing streak on
the S&P 500. You make it a 3-week losing
streak and you've got the longest weekly
losing streak going back 12 months on
the S&P 500. As things stand, we're
poised for that right now. Under
Savannah's this morning, appetite for
disruption.
>> Yes, the Strait of Hormuz could be
reopened tomorrow.
Uh it will take a a few weeks to clear
up all the logistical backlog, but then
you also have the problem of ramping up
production again. The scenario of the US
escorting vessels, we don't see appetite
from shipping companies to take that
that option at all right now. The
mechanism is still not in place and we
don't think that this is likely to
happen anytime soon.
>> His analysis this morning, the Trump
administration seeking to curb crude
volatility saying the US Navy will
assist in escorting tankers through the
Strait of Hormuz, quote, "soon." As
Iran's new supreme issues supreme leader
issues a statement saying the crucial
waterway should remain closed. Gene
Seroka, the executive director of the
Port of Los Angeles, joins us now for
more. Gene, welcome to the program. Can
we start with the operational
consequences here? And can you talk us
through a picture of what you see? The
transit times that have had to be
extended now because of the difficulties
getting through that very tight Strait
of Hormuz. What's going on now?
>> Well, good morning, John. Not much.
There are thousands of vessels that are
stuck in the Arabian Gulf and just to
the east outside of the Strait of
Hormuz.
About 114, 115 container ships, ballast,
bulkers, tankers, and those energy ships
that you've talked about in the previous
segment.
The companies do not have an interest
right now, nor is there enough money for
insurance to transit those ships through
the strait. Risking the life and limb of
crew is just not an option for the
private sector companies today.
>> So Gene, you're saying that for many,
they're just doing a hands-off approach
and have canceled a lot of transits.
>> That's right. On the container side,
John,
the Middle East and especially those
countries in the Gulf, think of the
United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait,
Iraq, they're a consuming public much
like we are here in the United States.
So exports from Asia of furniture,
footwear, clothing, electronics, and
appliances have all but halted. Those
factories in Asia are trying to segment
that product, move it to the side so
they can continue servicing us here in
the United States, Latin America,
European continent, and the UK. It It's
a matter of time to see if that starts
gumming up the works at ports through
Asia, but so far supply chains moving
here to the United States are smooth,
yet the cost of the fuel has doubled
over the last 10 days.
>> Has that affected, Gene, anything about
the number of ships, the number the the
the scope of demand that you've seen
at the Port of Los Angeles, just based
on the fuel costs alone?
>> Not so much right now, Lisa, but we're
watching this very closely. The cargo
moving today following Lunar New Year is
in our traditional slack season. So the
the flow of goods will be a little bit
slow until we hit the middle of April.
Then we'll start seeing spring and
summer fashion arrive. But the fuel
component right now is about 25% of the
overall freight cost,
almost double or much higher than it
normally is, yet it's not impeding
purchase orders. From what I hear out of
retailers and manufacturers alike, those
POs in Asia are remaining solid. We're
not seeing a drove of cancellations.
>> How much are you also seeing supply
chains start to regionalize in a more
concrete way. I mean, we've been talking
about this for a significant period of
time. People trying to localize where
they get things to avoid some of these
disruptions. Is that accelerating?
>> Yeah, it's interesting. Depending on
hubs of production, think of the
automotive industry here in the United
States with their tiered suppliers as
they're all within a 100 or 200-mile
radius of those OEM plants. Folks are
looking at scenario building around
supply chains, whether it's tariffs,
cost, now this war in the Middle East
that's impacting the fuel cost across
the board in a variety of areas. Not
only do we see it at the pump here up 60
cents over the last 2 weeks, but that
bunker fuel for the big container ships,
cruise ships, and airline tickets have
risen substantially over this period of
time, adding to that fuel adjustment
factor. On the manufacturing side, these
supply chains can't move that quickly,
and they've been designed in ways to
allow for some adaptation, and that's
why we typically see closed-loop
services in the Middle East. Those ships
that are coming from Asia will offload
the cargo, pick up a small amount of
exports, and a lot of empty containers,
and head straight back to Asia. Here in
the trans-Pacific trade, we don't see a
lot of interdependence of crews, assets,
or those vessels themselves. So, the
supply chain folks across the board are
continuing to look for ways to refine,
yet it the inertia is not going to
happen that quickly.
>> Jean, you lived through a lot of crises.
You also worked in the Middle East.
There was the pandemic. There was the
Red Sea at one point shut for about 6
months essentially. On top of that, we
recently had a lot of issues regarding
tariffs. What does this remind you of
the most?
>> Probably, Anne-Marie, a combination of
all of those. When I lived and worked in
the Middle East, we were going through
the second Iraqi War, and while there
was a lot of cargo flowing in to support
the troops that were on the ground and
help rebuild Iraq. There was always this
fear of the Strait of Hormuz being
closed.
And that 20 21-mi gateway that allows
cargo, product, ag, Dubai aluminum, and
of course the energy products going
through there, that was a fear for many,
many decades. And now we're seeing what
it really looks like. The price of these
energy products is on an international
level. So, even though the United States
now is a net exporter of energy, we're
still feeling it right here at home.
This is how important that geography is.
And while it's only about 8% of
container shipping volume and assets
worldwide, it's going to have knock-on
effects if this lasts longer than some
experts had originally predicted. So,
it's it's adding all these pieces
together, and it's that continued
unknown. What CEOs and executives are
telling me, Anne Marie, is their
planning horizons have shrunk to, you
know, months, if not less than that
right now, trying to understand how best
they can move tactically, because
longer-range strategy is is very
difficult at this point in time.
>> Given your contacts around the world,
have you heard of any companies asking
the US directly for that naval escort?
>> No, I haven't. We just had last week the
the large trans-Pacific Maritime
Conference here in Southern California
that was held by the S&P Global and
Journal of Commerce groups. Over 4,400
delegates, many of the shipping line
executives. And as we started trying to
plan or scenario build just a little
bit, follow-on conversations this week,
no one has raised their hand saying they
want to start pushing through. Again,
the safety of those crews is omnipresent
in their thoughts, and then the risk of
those assets, containers, you're not
going to be able to recoup that if
anything disastrous happened ever. And
you're going to have to live with it.
There's also this risk uh war risk
insurance premium that's been levied by
a number of carriers, about $3,000 per
container for any cargo that would be
transiting in that region. And it's
simply an outcome of the fact that they
can't get insurance for the vessels or
cargo or the protection of the crew. So,
to be at a standstill now will continue
for some time until we have some level
of surety that that region will be safe
again.
>> Gene, you're a gentleman. Thanks for
making time for us this morning. We
appreciate it. The Port of Los Angeles
Executive Director, Gene Seroka. It's
not just shipping lanes, it's air
corridors as well. And we'll have that
conversation with Flexport in the next
hour.
>> Yeah, how do you end up planning ahead?
And I was really struck by what you said
about companies that now have a horizon
of months. And it's getting even shorter
than that. I mean, we talk about
everything that's happened since the
beginning of the year. Can you imagine
planning a business and coming up with
inventory and where it's going to come
from? How quickly can a lot of these
companies pass along the higher costs
from both shipping routes, as well as
the fuel costs that are tied to this?
This is where people are looking at the
inflationary read-through into the
underlying economy.
>> Also, a significant point at the end.
Even if the United States was able to
potentially escort some tankers through,
what he's talking about is do these
companies even want to take on
potentially the security and
reputational risk? One, two, can they
even get war insurance at this moment
right now, unless you're an Iranian or
Chinese flag vessel?
>> Or Indian or Turkish for that matter,
based on the experience so far this
morning.
>> For one or two potential vessels right
now. Basically, if you are going to have
maybe good operational communications
with this new regime or regime 2.0, the
new Shah, the excuse me, the new supreme
leader, supreme leader's son.
>> Don't get ahead of yourself.
>> Yeah, but I mean, yeah, there are
individuals in the administration that
want that. Maybe a Freudian slip there.
Um but basically, if you have maybe
constructive communications, you can get
one or two vessels in right now.
>> Um next on the program, we'll catch up
with Joe Kerry Hall of Bank of America,
the former White House senior advisor
Amos Hochstein, James Alkohof of BNP
Paribas Plus, the Flexport CEO Ryan
Petersen on the difficulty of getting
goods all around the world right now.
From New York City, this is Bloomberg.
>> Ambassador giving this bull market the
benefit of the doubt.
>> If this is really like a 4-week event
>> equity is going to be fine.
>> It could be quite dangerous to be seeing
this as a buy the dip in all the risk
assets.
>> You don't want to be heavily overweight
large cap or mega cap growth stocks.
>> This is about duration and this is about
time unknown.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action the scores look
like this. Equity futures on the S&P 500
positive by 0.4%.
We have thrown a tremendous amount at
this market and this stock market is
still 4% away from all-time highs. In
the commodity market Brent and WTI look
like this. Brent crude around $100 a
barrel, 99 as we speak, down by 1.4% on
the session coming into this any moment
from now. A Pentagon briefing with the
Defense Secretary Pete Buttigieg. That
kicks off in just a moment. We'll bring
you some headlines on that in about 10
minutes time. Then at 8:30 Eastern time,
29 minutes away, PCE, another read on
inflation in America.
>> Yeah, and these two stories are
incredibly linked because right now the
inflationary momentum heading into what
has become very much of an oil shock is
key for people to understand A what the
Fed's response mechanism it is, and B,
how much this economy can tolerate an
additional inflation. I keep wondering
at what point you're going to start to
see the pain trade really take hold. You
talk about how we're not seeing it in
equities. We're not seeing it in credit,
either. Spreads completely contained,
even amid a backdrop of potential stress
in private credit. At a certain point,
it feels like that will start to crack
should oil prices keep climbing.
>> going to be important briefing by the
Defense Secretary, given the fact that
we've already heard from the President
of the United States. And when asked by
Fox News about the administration's
ability and willingness to escort oil
tankers through the Strait of Hormuz, he
said, "We would do it if we needed to."
What also is interesting today, Iran
must be feeling the pressure from
countries that are close to them, like
Turkey, like Iran, and internationally
to let at least minimum some tankers
through. These countries that have
somewhat stable communications with the
regime.
>> Brent crude $98 and around 80 cents.
Coming up this hour, Jill Carey Hall of
Bank of America with stocks looking to
avoid a fourth consecutive day of
losses. The former White House senior
advisor, Amos Hochstein, joins us with
crude hovering around $100 a barrel. And
the Flexport CEO, Ryan Petersen, as
tensions in the Middle East are choking
global supply chains. We begin this hour
with stocks gaining. Jill Carey Hall of
Bank of America Securities writing the
following, "Geopolitical shocks usually
suggest buying the dip. We favor value
in both small and large caps. If
stagflation risks rise, value has
outperformed in these environments."
Joining us now to discuss is Jill Carey
Hall. Jill, welcome to the program. You
have been much, much more cautious on
this equity market as a firm than
others. What contribution did this move
in crude make to that call?
>> Great. Thanks for having me. Yeah, I
mean, I think, you know, we've we've
started the year with a more
constructive outlook on the S&P 500
overall, 7,100 target for year-end. And,
you know, a lot of that is the
expectation that, even though it'll be a
good year for earnings growth and for
economic growth, it will be a year where
we see some multiple compression. Um a
lot of the big mega-cap tech and growth
stocks have been more crowded and
expensive. We have been expecting a
rotation within the market. Um and now
with the with the geopolitical shock and
the oil price move, I mean usually
supply-driven shocks are negatively
correlated with the with the moves in
the equity market. Um and you know,
these do tend to be buying opportunities
where you see these 5 to 10% sell-offs
in the S&P
over a you know, a a multi-month period
sometimes, but within 3 months the the
uh sell-off is typically more than
recovered. Similar for small caps, you
typically see a a bit of a bigger uh
drawdown, but a better recovery within 3
months. I think one of the risks today
is that um you know, as as Savita was on
your show on Monday talking about
investor cash levels have been depleted.
So, you know, uh when you look at
investors, uh mutual funds, their cash
levels are extremely low levels. Retail
investors have been um you know,
reducing their cash allocations even
though there is a lot in in money market
funds. So, there's the question of is
there less to buy the the dip with this
time around? And we did see dip buying
last week by institutional and and
retail investors. Some of that was in
energy ETFs, some of that was in tech
and communication services stocks. Um
but there is risk, you know, how long
could that dip buying continue?
>> Jill, what's impressive is that there
hasn't been much of a dip. We're down
about 4% from all-time highs on the S&P
500 and thrown a lot at this market, not
just crude, but we can talk about the AI
disruption as well. We can also talk
about the private credit situation, too.
And yet, Jill, here we are 4% away from
all-time highs. What do you think is
really anchoring the more constructive
view that's keeping this equity market
somewhat range-bound?
>> Well, we did see you know, some
inclination to to buy the initial dip
last week, like I mentioned. So, so
there has been been those inflows. We've
you know we've seen oil spike but still
under the the $100 a barrel level that
that obviously starts to get more risky
the the longer that the the spike occurs
or you know the longer it stays at that
100 or 100 plus level it tends to then
have a bigger impact on you know growth
and bigger risks to to what the Fed
does.
So you know I I think we're we and
investors are are watching how long this
occurs, how high oil stays.
You know but I think outside of what's
been going on, you know corporate
profits have been very strong. We've
we've seen healthy you know economic
indicators. We've seen the manufacturing
recovery start to take hold.
So you've had some very positive
developments on the the broader macro
side, you know prior to to the start of
this. So
you know I think this is this is
starting to to weigh on the market but
but we have not quite seen that that
typical pullback that we see on those
geopolitical shocks.
>> Jill, your colleague Michael Hartnett
put out a note over the past couple of
hours talking about how it's eerily
similar right now to the lead up of the
financial crisis in 2008 with oil prices
spiking at the time. They doubled from
$70 to $140 and increasing discussion
around subprime mortgages. Here we have
increasing concerns about private
credit. Are you seeing anything in terms
of credit deterioration among some of
the smaller companies that are included
in small caps and beyond?
>> You know I mean over the past quarter to
the the past two earning seasons we've
obviously seen you know some some tick
up in credit concerns you know in in
some of these isolated instances that
proliferated a bit and and obviously we
we we saw those comments about you know
the question of do these credit
cockroaches proliferate.
You know know, so this is something
we're watching closely but if we're
we're not yet at our at BofA expecting a
broad deterioration in the credit
backdrop. This is something that's
important for for regional banks, for
small caps, um, and and obviously for
for the financial complex broadly. Um,
but I think overall, you know, the the
backdrop leading into the crisis, what
what we saw there was it was sort of a
different backdrop in in terms of, you
know, the the health of financials which
look a lot different today. We've been
more constructive on on financial we've
been constructive on financials within
both large and small caps. Obviously
watching the credit situation very
closely. Um, you know, today a lot of
the lending has been to, you know,
growth stocks. Uh, so it's a bit of a
different backdrop than than what we saw
leading into the crisis. So, um, you
know, we we are more constructive on on
public equities than than private
equities from our concern but uh,
watching all this closely and at this
point not expecting a a broader credit
crisis.
>> I imagine the stress testing scenarios
have changed a bit over the past 3 weeks
and I wonder if you take a look at oil
going to $145, $150 a barrel, which is
some of the projections if this does go
on for a prolonged period of time. Do
you have a sense of how much that
changes the underlying fundamental
proposition for a lot of the companies
that do seem more vulnerable?
>> Yeah, so typically, you know,
supply-driven oil shocks can be more
negative for for the market. Um, you
know, the the question will be whether
the the spike in oil prices, which at
this point our commodity strategists are
expecting oil to average, you know,
between $77, $78 a barrel this year, um,
you know, given the risks right now, uh,
you know, kind of averaging the the
scenarios of whether we see a quick
resolution or whether this continues
into into 2Q. Um, and, you know, higher
oil prices can be positive for, you
know, some of the the commodity complex
but negative for consumer. Typically, it
takes a few quarters for this to hit
consumption. When you do have oil price
spikes, the consumers can draw down
savings first but but typically continue
to spend and then if this persists, you
know, during you know, three, four
quarters later is when you often see
consumption get hit.
So, obviously watching the the level and
the longevity of the oil spray spike in
terms of the potential impact to to
consumers.
But, you know, overall if you know,
though if the risks are that, you know,
we we we see stagflation risks rise,
those environments typically aren't as
positive for aren't positive for
equities relative to other asset
classes. But, within equities, we have
seen as as John mentioned at the top
that, you know, value stocks tend to be
the best positioned area. Energy stocks
tend to do well.
We we are positive on on energy within
our S&P 500 framework. It's starting to
rank better within our small cap
framework as well and and looks
historically cheap.
And and small caps overall have tended
to fare better than than large caps in
stagflationary environments. I think the
risk again will be around the the Fed as
since small caps have been a lot more
sensitive to to Fed expectations in
recent years.
>> Jill, always good to catch up. Jill
Carey Hall there of Bank of America
Securities. Another reason to look ahead
to earning season, which starts in about
a month's time. JP Morgan in the middle
of April. Of course, Bank of America and
the likes of the other players on Wall
Street will follow. Operational
consequences for what is happening on
the ground right now. That's what you
want earning season for. Plus, the
wrinkle in private credit. This earning
season's going to be quite interesting.
There's a lot not just thrown at this
equity market, a lot thrown at
companies, too.
>> Yeah, and I would guess that even before
then, you might start getting downward
revisions for companies that are more
exposed to higher energy prices. You
might start to get some of that
commentary. But, how do How do any
guidance at a time where the story is
moving so quickly? So yes, earnings are
going to be really important, but even
before that, how do companies message at
a time when they want to stay out of the
political fray?
>> Happening right now, not earning season,
this press briefing held by the defense
secretary, Pete Hegseth down in
Washington, D.C. at the Pentagon.
Bloomberg's Jeff Mason has been tracking
that story for us. Jeff, what are we
learning about the operation currently
ongoing in the Middle East?
>> Well, a couple of things, John. The
press the defense secretary just made a
little bit of news. He said that the new
supreme leader of Iran is wounded and
likely disfigured.
He addressed the Strait of Hormuz and
said we're dealing with it, don't need
to worry about it. Not sure that market
participants would agree with that. And
then he had some advice for the media
about how we cover the war and suggested
that we should be reporting that Iran is
desperate. I would say wouldn't pay
attention to that last piece, but I
would pay attention to the bit about
what he said about Iranian leadership.
That is interesting. He also said the
Iranian leadership is underground and
hiding. So that's that's a little bit of
a new development with regard to who's
running the country.
>> Yeah, Jeff, I have to say I'm right
there with you. I think that's
confirmation that at least they think
he's alive because there was some
yesterday that was speculating as to
whether he was because the statement we
got from him wasn't read publicly by
him. It was read by someone else. Jeff,
would you take that as confirmation that
he's actually alive or at least the
administration believes he is?
>> Well, I mean they didn't say he was
dead. He made a point of Hegseth made a
point of saying that the that the
supreme leader's father is dead and he
was sort of ribbing him a little bit for
not having come out and made that
statement on camera. He made a point of
saying Iran has cameras and they have an
the ability to do that on television and
that he didn't. So it's
probably more than speculating and I
don't think it's wrong to conclude that
they are suggesting that he's alive.
>> Jeff, appreciate that. Jeff Mason there
of Bloomberg down in Washington, D.C.
Now, on the surface of things I
understand that this might sound
absolutely ridiculous, but there's been
massive speculation about the status of
the new supreme leader, the son of the
late supreme leader, because the
statement that was released yesterday
was the first time we'd heard his words,
but we still haven't heard from him.
>> Yeah, a lot of people had speculated
that they anyone could have put out that
statement because it wasn't delivered in
any kind of either visual or audio way.
It does seem if this administration is
saying he is wounded, even disfigured,
that does seem to suggest that they do
believe he's alive with which does raise
a question of how much he continues to
be in control and whether this
administration would be willing to
negotiate with him.
>> Well, there was also reports that he was
wounded and this is a confirmation from
those reports a few days ago that even
if he was alive, he was wounded. This
defense secretary saying that's what
they believe and that's what this
administration is going off of. So,
Majtab Khamenei is alive, wounded,
disfigured, likely according to the
defense secretary. A big question is
whether or not this individual will
actually ever go on Iranian state TV or
even deliver a message in video. Like
you said, it was his statement but
delivered by someone else to the Iranian
people.
>> There are still questions I think
outstanding about who is actually
running the show on the ground in Iran
right now, whether it's that individual
or somebody else. Up next on the
program, the Morning Call's plus the
former White House senior advisor Amos
Hochstein joins us with crude hovering
around $100 a barrel from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
>> There are thousands of vessels that are
stuck in the Arabian Gulf and just to
the east outside of the Strait of
Hormuz. The companies do not have an
interest right now, nor is there enough
money for insurance to transit those
ships through the Strait. Risking the
life and limb of crew is just not an
option for the private sector companies
today.
>> That was the Port of Los Angeles
executive director Gene Seroka joining
the program a little bit earlier about
the reality of trade right now, the
disruption to freight, to air corridors,
the shipping lanes. We'll talk more
about that later this hour.
>> Here's the disruption to the equity
market as things stand. A 4% decline
from all-time highs on the S&P 500.
We're positive this morning across the
board on the S&P up by 0.4 and the
Nasdaq up by third. In the commodity
market so far, the status of things, the
scores look like this for crude. Brent a
breaker 99, 98, 90 and down by 1.5%.
Still up on the week, and up on the
month big time. We've had a 20-plus
dollar move over the past 2 weeks.
>> Yeah, and we hit $100 for the first time
closing at $100 going back to 2022. The
volatility has been in some places
absolutely unprecedented leaving a
question of how tradable this market is
going forward. What is going to be the
off-ramp? And each day that there isn't
an off-ramp, how much do people start to
price out not only now how high oil
prices are going to go, but in a month,
2 months, 3 months time?
>> Crude just a little bit softer so far
this morning. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, JP Morgan upgrading Alcoa to neutral
citing rising aluminum prices due to the
Iran war tightening supply. The second
call from Capital lowering its price
target on Adobe to 285 noting recurring
revenue concerns following the company
reporting earnings. And finally, Morgan
Stanley lowering its price target on
Dollar General to 150 seeing limited
upside from its current price. That
stock is just about unchanged this
morning. Let's stand back to the
conflict in the Middle East. A live
briefing underway at the Pentagon. The
Defense Secretary Pete Hoekstra saying
that Iran's new supreme leader is
wounded. Joining us now is Amos
Hochstein, the managing partner at TWG
Global and the former White House senior
advisor. Amos, welcome to the program.
You're tracking the headlines just as we
are. We've been saying this for a while.
Dealing with Iran was hard enough. Who
are we dealing with now?
>> That's a very good point. Look, I I I I
agree that I think the the supreme
leader is clearly not in a position to
be able to speak to the Iranian people.
Since he was selected, we haven't seen
him. We haven't heard his voice. We just
have a statement written by someone,
read by someone else.
Uh so, it's not clear. But, I will say
this. The Iranian regime is definitely
intact. The command and control is in
place.
Uh and we are seeing that across
different fronts that they have been
able to regain their ability to control
the events on uh on their end. Uh so,
that that we know. The The The regime is
not in a in a collapse mode in in any
way, shape, or form at this moment.
>> Amos, we're learning that as well from
the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff.
Kane saying that Iran still has the
ability to harm friendly forces and
shipping as well. What's your read on
why this is so difficult to achieve the
goals of this administration?
>> Well, first, I think part of the problem
of this war
uh is that nobody knows what the goals
of the war are. We Right? We This was
kind of a rolling and evolving
uh justification. It started with we
have to do this because the president
tweeted help is on the way to support
the protesters after they were
massacred.
Uh it tens of thousands were massacred
by their own regime. But, then it became
about nuclear.
Uh well, but was it about nuclear
because we obliterated the nuclear in
June? Uh and then it was about the
missiles cuz we took care of nuclear in
June, not the missiles. So, and then was
it regime change? So, I I think part of
the problem in this war is that the
original theory of the case on that
first Saturday was a powerful
blow to the regime taking out supreme
leader
the chairman of their military the head
of the IRGC
and about 40 other military leaders
followed by pounding by both Israel and
United States would lead to the
weakening and collapsing of the regime.
Once we got a few days in and the
Iranians were able to regain control
were able to name a new supreme leader
now we're seeing tactical coordination
between the Iranians and Hezbollah
and among their own forces
we don't know what the goal is and the
Iranians have been through multiple wars
in their time and are are hardened. This
is what they've been preparing for.
>> Amos you were in this exact position in
February 2022 in terms of looking at the
tools the White House could use to try
to help put some more oils back on the
market. Overnight we saw the Treasury
Secretary OFAC coming out with another
general license for Russian oil that's
at sea. We see them tapping the SPR.
There's reportedly from Bloomberg our
colleagues talking about maybe something
going on in terms of shipping in the
Jones Act. What left can this
administration do?
>> Well first of all I think look I didn't
start in February. We knew the war was
coming already in December
of
of before the war between Russia and
Ukraine.
And so we started preparing different
scenarios and I had briefed the
president at the time on here's what we
do we're going to have an oil problem
we're going to have a natural gas
problem in Europe and we started looking
at all the different tools that we had
at our disposal. The difficulty is when
you don't prepare for it is that you
start lurching from one solution to the
other. You announce an insurance scheme
potential for escorts SPR release etc.
I think they have to take a step back
for a minute and think through what are
we trying to achieve and how long are we
trying to achieve it for? And that is
that is a key issue because if this is
going to last for several weeks, then
some of these solutions are just not
workable. If we think it's only going to
last for a week or so or 2 weeks, you
can you can play with the SPR. But
remember, Amrita, we're not in the
Russia situation here. We have an 20% of
LNG off the market. We have 20% or let's
say 15% of the oil market off. And we
have all the products coming out of the
Middle East that are disrupted. And
those are very different solutions that
you need. Oil is actually the less the
lesser of the problem. And so, I think
as long as you don't have a sort of an
approach that understands the timeline
that you need it for, uh it's going to
be very difficult to convince the
markets that you have it under control.
And so, look, the the escorts I don't
think are going to are real. Uh they're
not going to do it. And at some point,
if you tease it out too many times, the
market's going to say, "Well, I guess
this is not coming." The market right
now is overly complacent in my mind on
how big of a disruption we have and how
long it may last.
>> So, then you think prices will go higher
than potentially Do you think this
administration could do something like
cut potentially this very controversial
but intervene in the futures market?
>> Well, there are a lot of rumors that
they may already have done that. I Look,
I don't know. I think
I'm very wary of setting those kinds of
precedents, but I think they have to
think uh without the recency bias of
what have we done before and let's do
that again.
Um they have to come up with some ideas
uh of thinking outside the box. Uh what
are the kinds of things that we can do
that would uh limit some of the demand
side in order to ease it? Uh I was
surprised they haven't done the waiver
on the Jones Act yet
uh in in full.
Uh I think that you can start looking at
how we move uh products around in the
United States from the Gulf Coast to to
the East Coast
so that we can make sure we have the
right supply of and reduce the price of
some of the products. I mean, we're
going to we're going to get to the
spring soon and airlines are going to
have to increase they're already
increasing prices of fuel surcharges and
so on. All of this is going to be paid
for by by consumers. And again, I'm not
trying to suggest that President Trump
should make a uh war and peace decision
based on an oil price, but I can tell
you for a people for people in America
who don't understand to begin with why
we're in the war or what is it that we
are trying to achieve that would allow
us to get out of the war, if you then
add on top of that the price and they
have to pay for it, I think that gets
really complicated real fast.
>> That is a tough message to sell into the
midterms, that's for sure. I must thank
you, sir. Thanks for making time for us.
I'm also hosting that the managing
partner at TWG Global and the former
White House senior advisor. Prices of
gasoline have gone from sub three bucks
to north of 350, north of 360 and they
are still climbing. We'll talk about PCE
in just a moment, the latest read on
inflation. Plus, we'll get a breakdown
from James Eagle of BNP Paribus from New
York City this morning. Good morning,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
We are a few seconds away from economic
data in America. The scores going into
that data looking for another read on US
inflation with equity futures positive
by about 4/10 of 1% on the S&P, likewise
on the Nasdaq and on the Russell. In the
bond market, two-year bond yields at the
highs of the year just off those levels
now as we pull back by two or three
basis points around 375 at the close
just yesterday and setting the tone for
pretty much everything over the last 2
weeks. This number right here, the price
of a barrel of crude, Brent at $99 a
barrel and negative on the day by one
percentage point. Let's get that
economic data for you. Mike McKee has
PCE and more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, Joe. A lot of important
data though a little less meaningful
since the war has started. These are all
January numbers. The personal income
price index that the Fed follows up 3/10
during the month of January on a
year-over-year basis, it slips to 2.8%
from 2.9% in December. The core is up by
4/10, which is the same as expected and
the same as the prior month, but we move
up to 3.1%
as forecast by economists. So, that
makes it much harder for the Fed to
consider certainly rate cuts. Personal
income up 4/10 during the month after a
3/10 in December and personal spending
up 4/10, a little stronger than
anticipated, same as in December. We
also have durable goods orders. Durable
goods orders flat on a headline basis
and ex-transportation up 4/10. Capital
goods orders non-defense ex-air, this is
the core number that sort of goes into
GDP. That is flat, no change there. And
then we have the first update to a GDP
for the fourth quarter. It goes to 0.7%
from 1.4%.
But the GDP cut in half for the fourth
quarter. Personal consumption fell to 2%
from 2.4%.
So, a lot to look at under the hood.
I'll get to that and Jen, I'm sure we'll
probably see some market reaction.
>> got a bit of reaction to this, Mike.
Thanks for that. Let's go to the front
end of the yield curve. You're seeing it
on twos. Two-year bond yields off the
back of some of these numbers lower by
three or four basis points, 370 coming
into today. The two-year yield, the
front end of the curve was at the
highest since August, I believe, of last
year around 3.75. We've backed away from
those levels. In line is a beat right
now when it comes to inflation. I would
say this is setting the tone for the
conversation several months out,
particularly if crude hangs in at these
levels right now. Oil a big feature of
the conversation. Brent at the moment,
99.39, and down by about one full
percentage point. In the mix, not just
US data, Canadian data as well. And
these numbers are absolutely terrible.
Talk about a negative print in America,
we've got a pretty negative print in
Canada as well.
>> Yeah, coming out saying that they lost
83.83
thousand jobs in February. The estimate
was a gain of 10,000 jobs, and it just
really puts the Bank of Canada in a
tough spot given that they are also
facing inflationary pressures from oil
prices going up. Can they hike rates if
they truly are facing stagflation? Here
in the United States, I do want to point
out that the GDP downgrade that came in
for the fourth quarter really does raise
questions about how much momentum was
coming into this. The fact that it was
halved really does point to maybe a
slowdown that doesn't necessarily get
offset. Look, the United States is not
in stagflation. I think that's what the
personal income and spending shows, but
it is facing potentially a bit of a
shock that could be a hit.
>> Mike, let's go with that 0.7% number for
the fourth quarter. Mike, in your mind
and in the details in the data, how much
of that was the government shutdown? How
much of it is something else?
>> Uh I'm still parsing through that, John.
It's going to take a few minutes to
figure that exactly out, but it does
look like at this point the consumer
slowdown would have put a bit been the
most of it because consumer spending is
the largest part of the overall economy.
Uh I'll get that number I'll I'll get
the government breakdown for you uh
while you talk to uh your guest.
>> Okay, Mike, we'll come back to you in a
couple of minutes. Mike McKee there with
the economic data. We're tracking a few
things at the same time here, not just
the economic data, ongoing a news news
from the Pentagon with the Defense
Secretary Pete Hegseth down in
Washington, D.C. This is what we heard
from the UK defense secretary yesterday.
The Iranians may have started mining in
the Strait. We're hearing something
very, very different from the defense
secretary in the US.
>> Defense secretary says there's quote no
clear evidence that Iran is laying
mines, but if that's not the case, then
you think it would be easier for them to
at some point take on these naval
escorts of tankers. Obviously, they need
to worry about drones, but this was also
supposed to be another clear issue. Also
going on to say today is the largest day
of strikes against Iran. So, potentially
we're going to see a lot more damage in
the region come by the end of the day.
>> That contradictory information right
now, the conflict that we're hearing
from NATO allies about the condition
through the Strait of Hormuz is not
going to help the flow of energy anytime
soon.
>> No, I mean, if you're planning to take a
ship through there, do you want to count
on competing visions of whether there
are mines that could potentially be
massive obstacles? I mean, this just
goes to the show. It's not necessarily
insurance. It's not necessarily
guarantees. It's the fact that people
are worried for their physical
well-being, and that's going to really
slow the flow.
>> James Athey of BNP Paribas joins us
around the table now. James, good
morning.
>> Great to be back.
>> You walked into the studio and it felt
like drowning in pessimism through the
program so far this morning. What's
anchoring the more constructive view for
the next 12 months?
>> Well, we think the US came into came
into the oil shock actually in a
relatively strong position. We saw
strong with solid growth at least. We
will have to go through the data as we
get back to the office, but with strong
growth, we see a stable labor market
that's generating jobs consistent with
the ability of the labor market to
produce new workers, and we see elevated
and persistent inflation. I just came
back from spending a week with clients
at the BNP Paribas Open Summit.
Um and what the theme I heard from them
even after the oil shock was resiliency
through uncertainty. The people see the
shock, they think the US economy is well
positioned to manage it. Where the big
challenge is going to be getting through
all of this incremental
>> You made two points. You talked about
the momentum in growth, and then you
called the labor market stable
consistent with the economy's ability to
generate jobs. So, let's deal with those
two points independently.
0.7% growth, is that what I just read
for GDP for the fourth quarter? Let me
see it again. The fourth quarter 0.7%
GDP growth. What tells you that strong
momentum?
>> What tells me it's strong momentum is
the consumer, is that we're still seeing
the consumer grow, consumption grow
consistent with a trend like pace.
There's a lot going on in that number.
It's a lot of it's being driven by noise
and trade, noise and inventories, noise
related to the shutdown. We think a lot
of that will pass over time as we get
through this year. Going into this year
though, we have strong momentum coming
out of the AI boom. We have continued
productivity gains, and we have optimism
that puts a floor under the economy
related to the AI growth.
>> Which this is sort of what people are
looking for. How much momentum is there
potentially if the Fed does not cut
rates to keep the momentum going? Do you
have some sort of scenario outlined
where it can withstand this economy can
withstand a certain level of oil prices
while still remain remaining robust?
>> The US economy is well positioned to
manage higher oil prices. It's a net
energy exporter. So, over time it's
actually somewhat beneficial for the US
to see somewhat higher oil prices. Now,
the uncertainty and volatility is
negative.
The US economy
also the consumption of energy as a
portion of the economy is actually
historically low. It's much lower than
it was for example in the 2000s. So, we
think the US so long as this doesn't
become an exaggerated or highly volatile
move is well positioned to continue to
grow through this.
>> There's also an issue of how much this
is going to be an inflationary shock.
And Omar Sharif of inflation insights
points out that maybe one of the reasons
why people are excited about this or
expecting that the Fed will have a
little bit more room to maneuver here is
because the unrounded core PCE was
0.363%
versus the 0.46% expectation. So, when
you start parsing through the numbers it
was mildly a miss on the overall
expectation. How much do you see the oil
shock feeding through in inflation that
is well above the 2% target, possibly
even 3% for the remainder of 2026?"
>> the Fed is on hold indefinitely. The Fed
has a very difficult problem. It has
been telling us for the past 5 years
that elevated inflation is transitory.
It hasn't been. We're now facing what is
potentially another prolonged period of
elevated inflation coming out of the oil
shock. The standard textbook in central
banking is that if inflation
expectations are well anchored, you
ignore this inflation and you focus on
the labor market, focus on growth. But
it's not clear that they can do that
here because of the concerns about their
about their
their how confident can they be in their
credibility around their inflation
target. We saw in January the committee
is already very closely divided between
one camp that wants to continue to
embrace this vision of transitory
inflation and focusing squarely on the
labor market, and another that's asking,
"How long can we keep doing this? How
long can we keep running elevated
inflation? How long can we keep calling
for layoffs or a rise in unemployment
that hasn't delivered?" And we think at
this meeting there's an underappreciated
risk the Fed turns a little bit hawkish
and says, "Look, we need a little bit
more room to maneuver here. We're going
to shift to a more balanced view on
where rates are going and open up a bit
of room to maneuver both on the downside
and on the upside.
>> When you say hawkish, meaning they just
stay on hold for longer, not that
there's actually a hike, which is what
the ECB is thinking of doing.
>> So we don't think the ECB is thinking of
hiking. We think the market is
overpricing that. We think that the
market is I think picking a bit of
excessively dovish perspective on the
Fed. The ECB has kept inflation close to
the target, whereas the Fed has run
inflation well ahead of the target now
for over 5 years. I think the Fed is
also in a stimulative stance already and
it's likely to become more stimulative
as the year goes on due to the rise in
inflation and because the neutral rate
is rising because of AI.
>> So do you think the ECB is also on hold
this year?
>> For a while, yes. We think the Fed
though had needs it needs to plan for
broad range of scenarios in our view,
just as investors do. It's very hard to
call how long the war is going to run.
So it's a question really if at this
meeting it may be too soon and we don't
have it as our base case that they
change their messaging, but there's
going to be a debate about how much room
do they need to maneuver and how large
of a commitment can they make to the
market that the next move is most likely
to be a cut.
>> Do personalities matter?
Does the fact that we've nominated Kevin
Warsh and the president wants rate cuts
matter?
>> So we think that regardless of who leads
the Fed monetary policy is going to be
driven by the economic outlook. It's
true that in the past we've seen when
when leaders change at central banks
that's brought about a regime shift. We
can think of
Volcker in the US, Draghi ECB, Kuroda at
the BOJ. These have been with
transformational figures. We don't think
this is one of those times. We think
ultimately he does not come in with the
mandate to change the Fed from the
public from the from within inside this
institution. And so we believe that
Warsh will follow a fairly traditional
reaction function with which with
elevated inflation with a persistent
inflation problem we think makes it hard
for the Fed to deliver further easing.
>> On hold indefinitely. James, thank you,
sir. Appreciate it. James Agahore there
of BNP Paribas. We got some data just
moments ago. It's about 10 minutes old
now. Mike McKiernan has more details for
you. Hey, Mike.
>> Yeah, I got a lot of under the hood
details for you, John. And you were
asking about what caused the GDP to be
cut in half. It really is personal
consumption, but also business spending
business fixed investment was lower in
by a full percentage point during the
month than we had seen in the initial
report. A 1.6% down from 2.6%
We also see that government consumption
while it was down significantly wasn't
significantly changed from the initial
report on GDP. Federal spending down
16.7%
national defense down 10.7%
also got a contribution from the change
in inventories. That was halved during
the month and we leave the final sales
to provide private domestic purchases at
1.9% down from 2.4%. That's the GDP
number. Now, I know people are
interested in the uh PCE numbers. The
wages and salaries number comes in
fairly strong at half a percentage
point. So, reasonably good news there.
The savings rate though goes up to 4 and
1/2%. And there is an old shibboleth
that says that people start saving money
when they think the economy is going to
turn down. And of course, December and
January months were people are paying
for their holiday spending. And then in
terms of the
the durable goods orders, what we're
seeing is basically defense aircraft
down 23.7%
in January. You'd think that might have
gone up if they were planning on
something. Defense spending overall down
11.8%.
>> I imagine that's going to change. Let's
put it that way. Mike, it's good to see
you. Thank you, buddy, as always. Up
next on the program, the Flexport CEO,
Ryan Petersen, as tensions in the Middle
East are choking global supply chains.
Plus, Danny's back. She's got you some
morning movers going into the opening
bell. Shares of energy companies very
much in focus as oil pairs gains. From
New York City, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
>> The United States is decimating the
radical Iranian regime's military.
Iran's leadership
is in no better shape. We know the new
so-called not so supreme leader
is wounded
and likely disfigured.
We put our statement yesterday, a a weak
one, actually.
But there was no
and there was no video. Iran has plenty
of cameras and plenty of voice
recorders. Why a written statement?
I think you know why.
>> That was the Defense Secretary Pete
Hegseth there. Some speculation on the
current condition of the new supreme
leader in Iran, and confirmation, really
the first confirmation from this
administration that at least they
believe he's alive.
>> Yeah, whether he's actually in control
is another story, but nonetheless,
confirming seemingly that he is wounded,
not dead.
>> I think also interesting though, we did
hear from the chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, Dan Coats. He said Iran
still has the ability to harm friendly
forces and shipping. So, when the
Defense Secretary says there's really
nothing to worry about in terms of the
Strait of Hormuz, and then you have the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, Coats, saying
they could still harm shipping, this is
why you see the premium right now in the
oil price.
>> precise words of the Defense Secretary
just moments ago, the only thing
prohibiting transit in the strait right
now is Iran shooting at shipping, which
is uh particularly unhelpful statement
at this point, because that's fairly
obvious to everybody.
>> it doesn't exactly comfort anyone. Look,
what they could be answering, what they
could be providing, that I think this
market is really looking for, what a lot
of people are looking for, is a sense of
what victory looks like, what the path
to get there is. I understand that they
don't want to give that away, but in
terms of what the ultimate goals are in
laying out that framework, and still,
that doesn't seem to be uh coming
through.
>> A sense of price action. Equity futures
in the session highs on the S&P 500
right now, up by about 0.5% on the
Nasdaq, up 0.5 also. On the Russell, up
by 0.8. How about this in the bond
market? Two-year bond yields, yields at
the front end of the curve down by five
basis points. It's a break of 370 after
hitting around 375 in the last 24 hours,
the highest since August. Retreating
following inflation data coming in
softer than expected, if you count
enough decimal points, from 20 minutes
ago. That's the latest data in America.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Danny has more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. It's been the best performing
sector so far this week and last week
which is no surprise and it's energy.
Some of those gains starting to cool off
with the reversal at least in the equity
market. You're looking at Exxon shares,
those are up 2/10 of 1%. Chevron and
ConocoPhillips slightly dipped this
morning. In terms of some individual
corporate news, Adobe announcing that
their CEO of 18 years will be stepping
down conceding that perhaps this is not
the right person to lead Adobe through
new AI transformations with the intense
competition they are feeling from
cheaper AI options. The market may be
contending also with the idea that maybe
a new CEO still won't help. They are far
behind shares down 8 and 1/2%. Finally,
Ulta reporting earnings. Their guidance
towards the lower end of Wall Street
expectations. That's hitting shares hard
pretty hard this morning down 7.8%
Ulta had been pretty
pretty able to handle some of the
economic headwinds. People still
shopping for makeup for skin care. So
the executives saying that this is a
conservative forecast because of
economic and geopolitical uncertainties,
John.
>> Let me cut in, Danny. Appreciate it.
It's kind of the first one really giving
a nod to the geopolitics and what it
might hold back consumers going into the
next couple of months at a time when
they're getting refunds. At a time when
we were going to get those refunds and
that was going to boost this economy. Is
that in doubt now?
>> Well, if you're paying more for gasoline
at the pump and you're paying more for
your electricity bill at home, are you
actually going to go to Ulta and buy,
you know, face mask and under eye
patches and lipstick and all of that
good stuff?
>> someone who might.
I know someone who might.
>> I don't know.
>> I know a few who might. All right, let's
get to the trading diary. It looks like
this as we count you down to the opening
bell. 10:00 a.m. Eastern time, UMich
consumer sentiment plus the president
signing executive orders on Monday. The
Nvidia CEO kicking off the company's AI
conference on Wednesday. A Fed rate
decision and Chairman Powell news
conference Thursday. Rate decisions from
the BOJ, BOE and ECB plus of course
another read on the labor market,
jobless claims. A week of so wait. Let's
turn back to the war in the Middle East.
The Defense Secretary Pete Hexter
updating reporters from the Pentagon.
Hexter downplaying concerns in the
Strait of Hormuz saying, "Don't worry
about it." And the only thing
prohibiting transit there right now is
Iran shooting at shipping. The Flexport
CEO Ryan Petersen writing, "What we're
seeing now is the logistics system
rapidly adapting to a new risk
environment." Ryan joins us now for
more. Ryan, welcome to the program. As
you pointed out, this is not just
shipping lanes. It's also air corridors
as well. What are the workarounds that
companies are currently pursuing? What
do they look like?
>> Yeah, hey, good to be here. So, um it is
the big problem is ocean freight and air
freight both. And
about 18% of the world's air freight
capacity is operated by Middle Eastern
Airlines. And so, those are taken off
line. And not only those planes, but
also the routes a huge amount of air
traffic from Asia to Europe stops in the
Middle East either in Dubai or Abu Dhabi
or or Qatar mostly.
Um those have been taken effectively
taken off line. There's some green
shoots here where Dubai start Emirates
has started to make some more flights to
Asia from there.
Really interesting workarounds. So, one
thing that we built for Flexport
customers is that you can now ship fast
ocean freight express to Los Angeles and
then we'll do a a hot shot truck to LAX
Airport and fly it to to the to to the
UK or the European Union.
Uh lots of create creativity happening
in the industry to try to solve for
this.
>> Ryan, that creativity I imagine is going
to cost money. And prices are going up.
Ryan, with that in mind, we spoke to the
Port of LA Executive Director earlier on
this morning who suggested some
companies will just hold. They'll press
pause. They'll stop. Are you seeing the
same thing?
>> I mean, no one really wants to press
pause. You're trying to make money. Like
that's what business is about. So, uh
there's some of that, but it's always a
a you know, cost-benefit analysis. But
yeah, for example, the price of air
freight from Asia to Europe, you can
still fly there. It's just that the
price has doubled. Uh same with fuel
prices and ocean freight have nearly
doubled the the bunker fuel that the
carriers had to pay. They're passing
that through. There's a huge number of
new surcharges coming in ocean freight.
You got war risk uh surcharges, sort of
insurance premiums, and then fuel.
There's a long list of these things.
It's hard for people to keep track of,
but you can't just pause your business.
That's not how this works.
>> Ryan, how much are people trying to get
ahead of any additional potential
increases in oil prices and actually
ordering more? Trying to stockpile their
inventories ahead of an even bigger
disruption.
>> There's There's that and that's
especially true. Oil price is one thing,
but um the the world is expecting new
tariffs on um March 11th. The US trade
representative introduced announced that
there were 16 new section 301
investigations
to uh effectively these are new forms of
tariffs to replace the IEEPA tariffs.
Under section 301, it you need a
an investigation. It can take several
months. But those 16 investigations
cover 92% of US trading partners by
volume, by import value.
Uh so everybody's expecting tariffs to
go way up from where they are today. And
so there's there's going to be some pull
forward effect on that.
>> Ryan, after the pandemic, people had a
lot of inventory. They were building
inventory and then they worked that down
as they got more comfortable with the
scenario. Are we going back to that
level of inventory build right now?
>> The um there may be some of that. I
don't know that people didn't really
learn too many lessons from the
pandemic. Inventory is expensive. Nobody
really wants to have lots of it sitting
around. It's expensive until you need
it. And then you and then you look like
a genius for having plenty of inventory
when your competitors don't, but it's
very costly in the meantime. So
uh the the pandemic sort of was a very
temporary lesson. And by now more or
less companies have gone back to where
they always operate. But yeah, you're
seeing new shocks and that'll cause
probably more temporary behavior
changes. And we'll see what's what's
lasting or what's considered lasting by
the brands and the companies.
>> Ryan and Jean Seroka talked about how
the timeline for CEOs to make decisions
is very short. Are you seeing that as
well?
>> Well, it's always the case. You need to
make decisions some some decisions you
need to make very quickly, and the
companies that are really good at making
decisions quickly have an advantage.
Now, um often the best decision is to do
nothing, but still a decision, but you
uh
if you're sitting there not making any
decisions is probably bad news, but uh
responding to very short-term situations
can be dangerous. You saw that a lot
with companies who moved manufacturing
in response to tariffs, and then woke up
and found out, "Oh, we moved our
manufacturing to India. Now India's
tariffs are just as high as China." Uh
and now they've gone back down, and
maybe we should have, you know, so it's
it's really hard to know what's lasting
and what's not. Uh I think having quick
uh decision loops is really important
for businesses.
>> Ryan, it's good to see you to get the
reality check on the ground. The
flexible CEO, Ryan Peterson there, on
what's happening with trade at the
moment. The price of things, fuel
surcharges, costlier alternatives, it
all adds up pretty quickly.
>> Yeah, and that's the reason why people
are watching inflation. I do want to
just emphasize the 0.7% that we got on
GDP growth in the fourth quarter, and it
raises this issue of how strong the
momentum was heading into yet another
shock in the US.
>> A major major energy shock coming up on
Monday. Chris Varona Strategas,
Francisco Blanch of Bank of America,
Henrietta Treyz of Veda Partners, Les
Thomas of SoFi from New York City. Thank
you very much for choosing Bloomberg TV.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.